ATMORE, Ala. (AP) — An Alabama inmate convicted of the mail-bomb slaying of a federal judge during a wave of Southern terror in 1989 was executed by lethal injection Thursday, becoming the oldest prisoner put to death in the U.S. in modern times.

Walter Leroy Moody Jr., 83, was pronounced dead at 8:42 p.m. following an injection at the Alabama prison at Atmore. He had no last statement and did not respond when an official asked if he had any last words shortly before the chemicals began flowing.

Authorities said Moody sent out four mail bombs in December of 1989, killing Judge Robert S. Vance, a member of the Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in Alabama and Robert E. Robinson, a black civil rights attorney from Savannah, Georgia. Two other bombs, including one mailed to the NAACP office in Jacksonville, Florida, were intercepted and did not explode.

At his 1996 trial, prosecutors described Moody as a meticulous coward who killed Vance with murder by mail because of his obsession with getting revenge on the legal system, and then committed additional package bombings to make it look like the Ku Klux Klan was behind the judge’s murder.

Moody became the oldest U.S. inmate put to death since executions resumed in the U.S. in the 1970s, according to the non-profit Death Penalty Information Center. His attorneys argued in court filings and a clemency petition to Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey that his age and vein condition would make lethal injection more difficult.

The U.S. Supreme Court temporarily stayed execution plans Thursday evening to consider Moody’s late appeals, but later lifted the stay without comment, allowing the execution to go forward.

Vance was at his kitchen table in Mountain Brook, Alabama, on Dec. 16, 1989, when he opened a package after a morning of errands and yard work.

The explosion ripped through the home near Birmingham, killing Vance instantly and severely injuring his wife, Helen. Prosecutors said Moody, who had attended law school, had a grudge against the legal system because the 11th Circuit refused to overturn a 1972 pipe-bomb possession conviction that prevented him from practicing law.

Moody was first convicted in 1991 in federal court and sentenced to seven life terms plus 400 years. He was later convicted in state court in 1996 and sentenced to death for Vance’s murder.

Vance’s son, Robert Vance Jr., now a circuit judge in Jefferson County and Democratic candidate for chief justice in Alabama, said it’s important that people remember how his father lived, not just how he died.

“He was a great judge, a great lawyer before that, and a great father,” he said earlier as the execution loomed.

Friends said the senior Vance quietly fought for the rights of underprivileged as both a jurist and a politician.

Moody had always maintained his innocence.

In recent weeks, Moody had sent a letter to the younger Vance claiming he was the innocent victim of a government conspiracy. “Had my Dad been murdered, I would want to know who had done it,” Moody wrote. The younger Vance said he put the letter in the trash.

Vance said he had to make peace with his father’s death, but said he has no doubt that Moody is guilty. He did not witness the execution.

The lethal injection procedure began at 8:16 p.m. Moody did not open his eyes or respond as the warden read his death warrant and asked him if he had any last words.

Moody’s attorney, Spencer Hahn, said he wanted to know what the prison system “gave him before to knock him out and prevent him from getting to give his last words. There was no dignity in that room. This dishonored the memory of Judge Vance and Mr. Robinson,” Hahn said.

Corrections Commissioner Jeff Dunn said Moody was not given any sedatives.

In last-hour appeals, Moody’s attorneys had asked the U.S. Supreme Court to stay his execution in order to review whether his federal sentence, which was handed down first, could be interrupted. They also argued that the aggravating factors used to impose a death sentence were improper. The nation’s high court had no comment on those last-minute appeals Thursday.

Moody’s attorneys, in their unsuccessful clemency petition argued that his victim was opposed to the death penalty, and halting the execution would honor Vance’s beliefs. Vance’s son said his father opposed the death penalty personally, but also believed in following the law.

Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall said Thursday night that after nearly 30 years, “Tonight, Mr. Moody’s appeals finally came to a rightful end. Justice has been served.”

___

Associated Press writer Jay Reeves in Birmingham, Alabama, contributed to this report.ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — The morning a homeless man was shot and killed in Albuquerque, police say surveillance videos showed him running down a street before sunrise, and then gunfire flashed in the dark.

Ronnie Ross, a 50-year-old from the Navajo Nation town of Shiprock, had been shot a dozen times, including once in the forehead and temple, and four times in the back, according to a criminal complaint. Police say the two teenage suspects charged with murder this week apparently shot him “for fun” as they came and went from a hotel party nearby.

The homicide marked the latest in a series of brazen killings and assaults of homeless Native Americans in the city, where they make up only 4 percent of the city’s population, but account for 44 percent of people living on the streets, raising the likelihood they will be victimized when there is an attack on the homeless.

A 2014 survey showed 75 percent of homeless Native Americans in Albuquerque had been physically assaulted.

“Just being harassed is part of everyday life, but it’s not as much harassment as it is overgrown bullying,” said Gordon Yawakia, who works at the Albuquerque Indian Center and was once homeless himself. “What do you do when people are against you and then the authorities are against you and you’ve got nobody, you know?”

In 2014, Allison Gorman and Kee Thompson, both Navajo, were beaten to death as they slept in a vacant lot. While authorities did not say the men were targeted because they were Native American, activists disagreed and the deaths spurred the creation of a city task force to address Native American homelessness that now-former Mayor Richard Berry said could set the stage for changes for the population across the Southwest.

Now, Ross’ death is underscoring how difficult it may be to protect and find solutions for the city’s Native American homeless population.

“When I hear a story like this it adds fuel to the fire,” said Dawn Begay, who is the city’s tribal liaison, and works with the homeless through a local nonprofit. “Where we’re headed is a good direction but it has to happen faster.”

Ross’ killing in March came three months after the body of Audra Willis was found decapitated in an area not far from the Sandia Mountains that line the city’s east side. The 39-year-old had come from To’hajiilee, a tiny Navajo community west of Albuquerque, and records show she had multiple addresses during her time in the city, including at the Albuquerque Indian Center.

Willis’ especially grisly death sent shockwaves through Albuquerque, just as the beatings of Thompson and Gorman had three years earlier.

The two men had been killed on a July 2014 night when authorities say three boys — ages 15, 16 and 18_returned home from a night of drinking and decided to attack them as they slept on a mattress. The men were beaten with a wooden table leg, cinder blocks, and other objects, police said. One young suspect later told authorities that the teens had beaten dozens of homeless people, though apparently none others fatally.

In Ross’ death, the complaint filed against the 15- and 17-year-old suspects does not identify a motive, but says the two teenagers bragged to friends about the shooting.

According to police, friends and acquaintances of the boys — whom The Associated Press is not naming because of their ages — said the suspects had been showing off a gun at the party, and had said to others that they had shot a man. At one point, the younger boy also said to a close friend at the party that he shot a “hobo” in the back.

The boys made one more stop at the scene to find Ross still alive, prompting the older boy to shoot him multiple times, according to the complaint.

“It’s completely disturbing,” said Officer Simon Drobik, an Albuquerque police spokesman, said Tuesday. “They just shot this guy for fun.”WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on former FBI Director James Comey’s memos (all times local):

10:30 p.m.

The Republican chairmen of three House committees say memos written by former FBI Director James Comey recounting conversations with President Donald Trump show that Comey never “felt obstructed or threatened.”

House Judiciary Committee Chairman Robert Goodlatte, House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy suggest the memos “would be Defense Exhibit A” if Trump were charged with obstruction of justice.

The chairmen released a joint statement after the memos were delivered to Congress Thursday. The Associated Press obtained the memos.

Special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating ties between Russia and Trump’s 2016 campaign and possible obstruction of justice by the president.

The chairmen say the memos make clear Trump “wanted allegations of collusion, coordination, and conspiracy between his campaign and Russia fully investigated.”

__

9:45 p.m.

President Donald Trump says Russian President Vladimir Putin told him, “We have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world.”

That’s according to a memo written by former FBI Director James Comey. The Associated Press obtained copies of Comey’s memos Thursday.

Comey says the comment came during a brief meeting with Trump at the White House in February 2017. Comey says Trump told him that the “hookers thing” was nonsense. The president was referring to allegations in a dossier about a possible encounter between Trump and Russian prostitutes in a Moscow hotel.

Comey writes that Trump did not say when Putin had made the comment.

__

9:30 p.m.

President Donald Trump told former FBI Director James Comey that he had serious concerns about the judgment of his first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, according to memos maintained by Comey and obtained by The Associated Press.

Days later, Trump’s chief of staff asked if Flynn’s communications were being monitored under a secret surveillance warrant.

The 15 pages of Comey memos contain new details about interactions he had with Trump in the weeks before his May 2017 firing.

Those encounters include a Trump Tower discussion involving allegations of prostitutes and Russia; a White House dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty; and a private Oval Office discussion where the ex-FBI head says the president asked him to end an investigation into Flynn.

__

8:30 p.m.

The Associated Press has obtained 15 pages of memos that former FBI Director James Comey drafted about his interactions with President Donald Trump.

The Justice Department provided the documents to Congress on Thursday.

The memos include details about several interactions in the first few months of the Trump administration. They include a January 2017 dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty, and a conversation the following month about former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn.

Some of the episodes have been recounted in Comey’s congressional testimony last year and in his new book, “A Higher Loyalty.”

__

7:45 p.m.

The Justice Department has sent Congress confidential memos written by former FBI Director James Comey.

In a letter sent to three Republican House committee chairmen Thursday evening, Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd writes that the department is sending a classified version of the memos and an unclassified version. The department released Boyd’s letter publicly, but not the memos.

Boyd writes that the department “consulted the relevant parties” and concluded that releasing the memos would not adversely affect any ongoing investigations.

Comey revealed last year that he had written the memos after conversations with President Donald Trump, who later fired him. Some lawmakers have been able to view the memos since last summer, but copies had not been provided to Congress.

__

5:30 p.m.

The Justice Department has agreed to provide three House committees with copies of several memos written by former FBI Director James Comey, according to a person familiar with the agreement.

The move comes as House Republicans have escalated criticism of the department, threatening to subpoena the documents and questioning Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and other officials. The person familiar with the agreement spoke to The Associated Press on Thursday on condition of anonymity because the documents had not yet been sent to Congress.

Justice officials had allowed some lawmakers to view the memos but had never provided copies to the House committees.DENVER (AP) — A planned national high school walkout for gun control on the 19th anniversary of the Columbine shooting Friday won’t include student protests at the Colorado school that changed the way the nation viewed shootings.

Just as it has done every year since the April 20, 1999, shooting killed 12 students and a teacher, Columbine High School will be closed, and students there will stick with their tradition of holding a day of service to commemorate the tragedy in a community that includes both those who have pushed for gun control and to arm teachers.

Junior Kaylee Tyner, who helped organize a walkout at the school on March 14, said the anniversary is a day to remember those lost in the shooting and those they left behind and politicizing it could divide the community.

“Every other day can be a day to push for change,” said Tyner, who wishes organizers of the national walkout had reached out to the Columbine community first. “But that is a day to respect victims and their families.”

In a letter to other high schools in its suburban Denver district earlier last week, current Columbine principal Scott Christy and the principal at the time of the massacre, Frank DeAngelis, suggested students join their tradition rather than participating in a walkout, noting that April “has long been a time to respectfully remember our loss.”

DeAngelis said he does not want to tell other schools nationally what to do. As an unofficial consultant to schools hit by shootings because of his experience, he said he has always told them to consider what their community wants, rather than follow a template. But if schools want to hold events to honor the Columbine victims on the anniversary, he said he would ask that they include a day of service since that is the practice at the suburban Denver school.

The message has spread to other schools across the country, leading some to question whether they should participate in the national walkout, creating confusion even among students at Florida’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, where the most recent school shooting massacre claimed 17 lives in February.

Douglas junior Casey Sherman, who organized a march last month that was attended by thousands nationwide, says school administrators are trying to keep kids from walking out because of Columbine’s request.

“We all want to support Columbine in whatever they hope for us to do, whether that be walking out during school or simply paying your respects quietly,” she said. “My understanding is that Columbine was conflicted themselves as to what direction they wanted to go with it and as a result their message initially came out as seemingly a bit confused.”

“I know that Douglas just wants to do right by them.”

Douglas senior David Hogg, one of the leaders of the #NeverAgain movement, has sent some confusing directives on social media.

In a now-deleted tweet on Monday, Hogg said he was wrong to have previously said that everyone should walk out on Friday no matter where they were, adding, “This is what Columbine community would like to see on 4/20. #Day of Service”

Later that day, he tweeted “We are still walking out however the Columbine community will be committing 4/20 to volunteering Once again we are still walking out We are still walking out We are still walking out We are still walking out @schoolwalkoutUS has been working incredibly hard on this.”

Hogg has been encouraging students to walk out and register to vote. Some Columbine students compromised by holding a combined vigil and voter registration rally on Thursday night.

About a thousand people, including a group of students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, gathered in a park near Columbine. Some held signs that read, “Change Gun Laws,” ”Change Congress” and “I Will Vote.”

The National School Walkout website says nearly 2,500 walkouts are planned across the country on Friday, mostly at high schools but at some middle schools and colleges, including the University of Cambridge in Britain.

The group’s founder, 16-year-old sophomore Lane Murdock, who attends Ridgefield High School in Connecticut, says her organization has been in touch with friends and family of the Columbine community, saying “we’ve been having a dialogue with them.”

Murdock says it is “awesome” that Columbine is doing a service day, but that doesn’t mean other students across the country should not follow through with the walkouts, which they’ve spent a lot of time planning over the past two months.

“Honestly, I just think they’re different approaches to the same problem,” said Murdock. “This is their day and they’ve been working really hard and they deserve to raise their voice the way they see fit.”

____

Kennedy reported from Parkland, Florida.YEREVAN, Armenia (AP) — The leader of large protests that have roiled the capital of Armenia for a week is calling on supporters to renew efforts to paralyze traffic.

The protests, which began last Friday, are against former President Serzh Sargsyan’s assumption of the prime minister’s post. The move came as Armenia changed its government structure to reduce the power of the president and give more authority to the premier.

Opponents claim the change allows Sargsyan to continue as the country’s leader even though he had to step down from the presidency because of term limits.

Some earlier protest gatherings shut down traffic in the center of Yerevan. Protest leader Nikolai Pashinian on Thursday night told a rally of 10,000 people on central Republic Square that actions to halt traffic would begin Friday morning.WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump told former FBI Director James Comey that he had serious concerns about the judgment of his first national security adviser, Michael Flynn, according to memos maintained by Comey and obtained by The Associated Press.

The 15 pages of documents contain new details about a series of interactions that Comey had with Trump in the weeks before his May 2017 firing. Those encounters include a White House dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty, and a meeting the following month in which he says the president asked him to end an investigation into Flynn.

According to one memo, Trump complained about Flynn at a private January 2017 dinner with Comey, saying “the guy has serious judgment issues.” He then blamed Flynn for a delay in returning the congratulatory call of an international leader.

“I did not comment at any point during this topic and there was no mention or acknowledgment of any FBI interest in or contact with General Flynn,” Comey wrote.

Flynn was fired a month later after White House officials said he had misled about his Russian contacts during the transition period. In a separate memo, Comey says Trump cleared the Oval Office of other officials, encouraged him to let the investigation into Flynn go and called him a good guy.

In a Senate hearing in June, Comey told Congress, “I knew there might come a day when I would need a record of what had happened, not just to defend myself, but to defend the FBI and our integrity as an institution and the independence of our investigative function.”

The memos were provided to Congress earlier Thursday as House Republicans escalated criticism of the department, threatening to subpoena the documents and questioning officials. In a letter sent to three Republican House committee chairmen Thursday evening, Assistant Attorney General Stephen Boyd wrote that the department was sending a classified version of the memos and an unclassified version. The department released Boyd’s letter publicly but did not release the memos.

Justice officials had allowed some lawmakers to view the memos but had never provided copies to Congress. Boyd wrote that the department had also provided the memos to several Senate committees.

Comey is on a publicity tour to promote his new book, “A Higher Loyalty.” He revealed last year that he had written the memos after conversations with Trump.

Details from some memos were made public in media accounts in the days after he was fired. At the Senate hearing, Comey detailed his conversations with Trump.

One Comey memo recounts a February request from Trump, during a private meeting in the Oval Office, that Comey end an investigation into Flynn.

Boyd wrote in the letter that the department “consulted the relevant parties” and concluded that releasing the memos would not adversely affect any ongoing investigations. Special counsel Robert Mueller is investigating potential ties between Russia and Trump’s 2016 campaign as well as possible obstruction of justice by the president.

Boyd said the decision to allow the release of the memos “does not alter the department’s traditional obligation to protect from public disclosure witness statements and other documents obtained during an ongoing investigation.”

Comey said in an interview Thursday with CNN that he’s “fine” with the Justice Department turning his memos over to Congress.

“I think what folks will see if they get to see the memos is I’ve been consistent since the very beginning, right after my encounters with President Trump, and I’m consistent in the book and tried to be transparent in the book as well,” he said.

Last week, the GOP chairmen of three House committees demanded the memos by Monday. The Justice Department asked for more time, and the lawmakers agreed.

__

Link to the memos:

http://apne.ws/dwhMe9RNEW YORK (AP) — Federal regulators plan to fine Wells Fargo as much as $1 billion as early as Friday for abuses tied to its auto-lending and mortgage businesses, The New York Times and other news outlets reported, citing unnamed sources.

The potential $1 billion fine would be largest ever imposed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the bank’s main national regulator, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the federal watchdog bureau set up after the Great Recession.

The fine against Wells Fargo had been expected. San Francisco-based Wells Fargo said last week that it was negotiating with federal regulators to pay as much as $1 billion in fines to settle various charges.

A CFPB spokesman declined to comment, as well as a spokesman for the Comptroller’s Office. A spokeswoman for Wells Fargo also declined to comment.

The problems with Wells Fargo this time are not tied directly to its well-known sales-practices scandal, where the bank admitted its employees opened as many as 3.5 million bank and credit card accounts without getting customers’ authorization. But they do involve to significant parts of the bank’s businesses: auto lending and mortgages.

Last summer, Wells Fargo admitted that hundreds of thousands of its auto-loan customers had been sold auto insurance that they did not want or need. In thousands of cases, customers who could not afford the combined auto-loan and extra insurance payment fell behind on their payments and had their cars repossessed.

In a separate case, Wells Fargo also admitted that thousands of customers were charged unnecessary fees in order to lock in their interest rates on their home mortgages. Wells Fargo is the nation’s largest mortgage lender.

This would be the first fine against a bank by the Trump administration since Mick Mulvaney, acting director of the CFPB, took over the bureau in late-November.

While banks have benefited from looser regulations and lower taxes under President Donald Trump, Wells Fargo has been called out specifically by Trump as a bank that needs to be punished for its bad behavior.

“Fines and penalties against Wells Fargo Bank for their bad acts against their customers and others will not be dropped, as has incorrectly been reported, but will be pursued and, if anything, substantially increased. I will cut Regs but make penalties severe when caught cheating!” Trump wrote on Twitter back in December.BOISE, Idaho (AP) — Anti-abortion rhetoric is intensifying ahead of midterm elections as officials in Republican-dominant states push legislation that would punish both doctors and patients, even though such laws are likely unconstitutional.

In Idaho, Republicans competing in a crowded field for governor have made it a major campaign issue ahead of the May 15 primary. One candidate promised to back a long-shot effort that would allow women to be prosecuted for getting abortions, and another offered tepid support but doubted it would survive a legal challenge.

Politicians in states from Ohio to Oklahoma are pushing similar measures or promising to criminalize abortion as they seek office. It comes despite courts temporarily blocking stringent laws passed recently in Mississippi and Kentucky.

Targeting patients for punishment is a stance that traditionally has raised eyebrows even from staunch anti-abortion groups that tend to treat women as victims, not criminals, for choosing to end a pregnancy.

However, with President Donald Trump’s administration embracing anti-abortion groups and promising to appoint federal judges who will favor efforts to roll back abortion rights, Republican state leaders have become more emboldened to support the idea without facing backlash from their conservative base.

Supporters of punitive legislation say that believing abortion is murder means the act must be punished as such, which could include life in prison or the death penalty.

The stance openly defies the U.S. Supreme Court, which has ruled that a woman has the right to choose an abortion without “undue interference” from the state. It also conflicts with other anti-abortion advocates. Many Catholics, for example, oppose both abortion and the death penalty.

The high court legalized abortion in 1973, but anti-abortion advocates hope Roe v. Wade will soon be overruled if Trump gets the chance to appoint a justice who would cast the deciding vote against it.

In the meantime, a push for legislation punishing women has taken hold in Idaho, which has passed anti-abortion measures almost every year. A handful of bills have failed to stand up to legal challenges.

This year, Idaho required women seeking abortions to be informed that the drug-induced procedures can be halted halfway, despite opposition from medical groups that say there is little evidence to support that claim.

The group Abolish Abortion Idaho has launched a ballot initiative seeking to charge abortion providers and women who end pregnancies with first-degree murder, but it doesn’t appear it will qualify for the November ballot. The group has not yet submitted any signatures to be verified before an April 30 deadline.

Idaho candidates also have voiced their support for punishing women. This month, a GOP lieutenant governor candidate said during a forum that “anyone who has an abortion should pay.”

State Sen. Bob Nonini later softened his position, clarifying that the threat of prosecution could drastically reduce abortion but he did not believe women would actually face the death penalty.

His comment attracted swift condemnation from groups who fight for abortion rights.

“What’s pro-life about convicting women of first-degree murder for accessing abortion care? Absolutely nothing,” national nonprofit NARAL Pro-Choice America said in a statement. “It’s no surprise that the party that claims to be pro-life supports a guy who wants to impose the death penalty on women accessing health care.”

One of Nonini’s Republican opponents, former state Rep. Janice McGeachin, responded at the forum that she opposed abortion but did not believe women should be killed for having the procedure.

Top Idaho GOP gubernatorial candidate Tommy Ahlquist said at another forum months earlier that he would support legislation allowing women to be prosecuted for abortions. He was responding to a question from a Republican lawmaker who wants to push such legislation but hasn’t introduced it at the Statehouse.

Ahlquist’s campaign has since reiterated his stance to The Associated Press, assuming lawmakers passed the measure.

His challenger, Lt. Gov. Brad Little, also said at the forum that he would like to sign such a measure into law but acknowledged that it might not stand up in court. Little also said he “probably would” support it but had not seen anything in writing.

“From my standpoint, my right-to-life voting record is clear, and I would have to look at it, obviously,” he said. “We have passed some of those bills that have gone to be judicially overrode by a federal court and that would be the risk that would appear there (with this bill).”

Outside Idaho, such legislation also has taken hold in statehouses and on the campaign trail.

In Ohio, Republican lawmakers introduced legislation that would ban all abortions and allow prosecutors to charge doctors and patients who get the procedure, including the death penalty or life imprisonment with no exceptions for rape, incest or to protect the health of the woman.

Oklahoma gubernatorial candidate Dan Fisher, a Republican, has described himself as the only candidate who would call for an emergency legislative session to criminalize abortion if elected.HAVANA (AP) — The Latest on Raul Castro’s handover of Cuba’s presidency (all times local):

6:45 p.m.

Vice President Mike Pence is responding to outgoing Cuban leader Raul Castro, telling him on Twitter that “we’re here standing with the Cuban people.”

Pence tweeted in response to a quote from Castro, who said Pence “couldn’t take it and left” during his appearance last weekend at an international summit in Peru.

Pence responds, “looks like you’re the one leaving,” and says the U.S. won’t rest until Cuba “has free & fair elections, political prisoners are released & the people of Cuba are finally free! (hashtag)CubaLibre”

The vice president walked out of the Summit of the Americas when Cuba’s foreign minister was recognized to speak after him. Pence slammed Cuba as a “tired communist regime” in his speech.

___

4:30 p.m.

Cuban-Americans in Miami aren’t expecting much change as President Miguel Diaz-Canel takes over from Raul Castro.

Many in South Florida who either fled the Cuban Revolution themselves or are related to people who did, have long been hostile to the government. But this latest development isn’t the kind of change they wanted.

Sixty-five-year-old Lourdes Diaz tells The Associated Press she sees nothing to distinguish the 57-year-old new president from his predecessor. The political adviser who left the island with her mother before Fidel Castro says life on the island will be “exactly” the same under the new leader.

Julio Cesar Alfonso, president of Solidarity Without Borders, calls the change of leadership a “farce.”

Attorney Wilfredo Allen who left Cuba in 1961 notes that Raul Castro will still control the Communist Party. Still, he says, “sometimes a cosmetic change becomes real.”

___

4 p.m.

Russia and China are among the countries sending congratulations to Cuba as a new president takes office on the island while the U.S. expressed “disappointment” over the event.

Cuban-state media said Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated President Miguel Diaz-Canel and thanked the outgoing President Raul Castro for the many years of cooperation between the two countries.

Official media also said Chinese President Xi Jinping reaffirmed his country’s friendship with Cuba expressed interest in deeper ties.

But the U.S. State Department said Cuban citizens “had no real power to affect the outcome” of what spokeswoman Heather Nauert called an “undemocratic transition” that brought Diaz-Canal to the presidency.

The spokeswoman said the U.S. was not surprised by the outcome but “nevertheless disappointed.”

___

1:55 p.m.

Raul Castro’s retirement from the presidency of Cuba has its own theme song.

Cuban state media are enthusiastically promoting “The Last Mambi,” a tribute to Castro posted online by renowned trova singer Raul Torres.

Torres also wrote a tribute to Fidel Castro that was widely played in Cuba after the revolutionary leader’s death in November 2016.

Addressing Raul Castro, the new song says, “Now you can be happy/confident that you won’t be the last mambi/confident that there will be millions of arms/with their machetes at the ready.”

The mambis were machete-toting Cuban rebels against Spanish rule in the 19th century who become icons of Cuban nationalism for future governments, including the current communist administration.

___

1:25 p.m.

One of the fiercest congressional critics of Cuba’s government says the island’s new president is a “thug” who is just the “same as the old boss.”

Florida Republican Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen says Congress sees Thursday’s transition as “business as usual” and doesn’t expect diplomatic relations to improve under new President Miguel Diaz-Canel.

Raul Castro stepped down as president Thursday, ending 60 years of Castros holding the island’s top government position. But he remains head of the Communist Party, the country’s ultimate authority.

The Cuban-born lawmaker told The Associated Press Thursday that as long as Raul Castro remains, “There are really no changes.”

She said “It’s the whole system that is corrupt. It’s the communist, authoritarian, totalitarian regime.”

___

11 a.m.

Raul Castro says he sees new Cuban President Miguel Diaz-Canel as his eventual successor as head of the island’s powerful Communist Party.

Castro is making his first speech since handing the presidency over to Diaz-Canel, and used the opportunity to give his vision of the future.

He told members of the National Assembly Thursday that he expects Diaz-Canel to serve two five-year terms and can become head of the party once Castro leaves that position in 2021.

Castro praised Diaz-Canel’s leadership as a Communist Party official dating back to the “special period” of the 1990s when Cuba faced a deep economic crisis following the loss of subsidies because of the collapse of the Soviet Union.

Raul Castro served as president for two terms since 2008.

___

10:10 a.m.

President Mario Diaz-Canel has made his first speech as Cuba’s new head of state with a pledge to continue the socialist revolution led by his predecessors Fidel and Raul Castro.

Diaz-Canel says in the nationally televised speech before the National Assembly that his first thoughts upon taking office are for the “historic generation” that has led the country since the triumph of the Cuban Revolution in 1959.

The 57-year-old president says the country’s leadership cannot forget “for a second” its commitment to the people of Cuba.

Raul Castro sat in the front row of the assembly, gently rocking back and forth in his chair and occasionally seeming to nod in approval.

___

9 a.m.

Raul Castro has passed Cuba’s presidency to Miguel Diaz-Canel, putting the island’s government in the hands of someone outside the Castro family for the first time in nearly six decades. He remains head of the powerful Communist Party that oversees political and social activities.Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about Friday:

1. AFTER STRIKES, US IN HOLDING PATTERN

The drama of U.S. and allied missiles strikes on Syria obscures the fact that the U.S.-led campaign to eliminate the Islamic State group from Syria has stalled.

2. WHY NO CHARGES ARE PLANNED IN PRINCE’S DEATH

The pop star was taking a common painkiller but instead ingested a counterfeit pill that he probably did not know contained fentanyl, a Minnesota prosecutor says. Nor is it clear where he got the drug.

3. RUDY GIULIANI SIGNING ON TO HELP TRUMP

The former New York City joins the legal team defending the president in the Russia probe.

4. HOW POWER IS SHIFTING IN HAVANA

Raul Castro hands over Cuba’s presidency to a hand-picked 57-year-old successor who is expected to hold office until 2031.

5. PROGRESS SEEN IN OPIOID FIGHT

The number of prescriptions for opioid painkillers filled in the U.S. fell dramatically last year, showing their biggest drop in 25 years.

6. WHO’S WORKING TO STOP ‘RETAIL RACISM’

Two black men whose arrest at a Starbucks in Philadelphia set off a furor over racial profiling say they are pushing for changes to make sure no one else endures what they did.

7. ‘WE WILL CROSS THE BORDER’

Organizers of mass marches on Gaza’s boundary with Israel move protest tent camps closer to the border fence, heightening the risk of more bloodshed.

8. WELLS FARGO FACING RECORD FINE

Federal regulators reportedly plan to penalize the bank as much as $1 billion for abuses tied to its auto lending and mortgage businesses.

9. WHAT’S A FIRST FOR THE SENATE

Sen. Tammy Duckworth and daughter Maile make history when the Illinois Democrat brings the 10-day-old baby onto the Senate floor under new rules that permit it.

10. LANCE ARMSTRONG AGREES TO PAY GOVERNMENT $5M

The former cyclist, whose sponsors included the U.S. Postal Service, reaches a settlement in a lawsuit that could have sought as much as $100 million in damages.PHOENIX (AP) — The potential for Arizona teachers to launch a first-ever statewide strike has school districts, parents and education officials making contingency plans despite a lack of clarity about what may happen and when.

A grass-roots group overseeing a vote on whether teachers should walk off the job was expected to announce the results Thursday night. The vote follows about six weeks of mounting protests to demand increased funding for public schools and an offer by Republican Gov. Doug Ducey to boost teacher pay by 20 percent.

Parents and communities already are making plans for child care, though they don’t know if a walkout is a certainty, said Beth Simek, president of the influential Arizona PTA. Some stay-at-home parents are stepping up to watch children so other parents can go to work, she said.

Local parent-teacher associations also are putting together food boxes for kids who rely on free breakfast and lunch at school.

“There’s been a lot of mobilization by the community to prepare,” Simek said.

More than 1 million students in Arizona go to public school in more than 200 districts, which have varying walkout plans. The state’s largest, Mesa Public Schools in suburban Phoenix, would close and hourly staffers would not be paid, Superintendent Michael Cowan has said.

The Dysart School District west of Phoenix would “make every effort” to avoid closing schools,” but they would have to shut down if too few staff members show up, Superintendent Gail Pletnick has told parents.

The Scottsdale Unified School District was finalizing information, spokeswoman Erin Helm said Thursday.

If teachers vote in favor of walking off the job, it’s unclear when it could happen.

The grass-roots organizing group Arizona Educators United has reserved space at the state Capitol on Friday and for four of five days next week for rallies as it gets ready for a possible walkout.

“We are preparing for all options right now,” group organizer Noah Karvelis said this week.

The potential for the first statewide walkout is complicated by the possible fallout in this right-to-work state, where unions do not collectively bargain with school districts and representation is not mandatory.

The Arizona Education Association, which supports the grass-roots campaign and is helping announce the vote results, has warned its 20,000 members about a 1971 Arizona attorney general opinion saying a statewide strike would be illegal under common law and participants could lose their teaching credentials.

Arizona is one of several Republican-dominant states where teachers have demanded higher pay this year. The movement started in West Virginia, where a strike garnered a raise, and spread to Oklahoma, Kentucky and most recently Colorado.

The vote in Arizona comes after Ducey’s pay raise plan didn’t address other demands, including more overall school funding. Some walkout supporters say they want to send a message that other workers, such as bus drivers and receptionists, should get raises, too.

His proposal has received support, but others are concerned about finding the money to cover its roughly $650 million cost when fully implemented.

Republican state House Speaker J.D. Mesnard said lawmakers widely support a 20 percent raise, though there’s no agreement on how to fund it.

“The broad consensus is, ‘We want to see a pay raise,'” he said. “Right now, it’s a lot of number crunching, a lot of discussions … it’s all centered around, how do we make this a reality?”

Mesnard said a walkout is a “risk” that could backfire by depleting community support. Many in the public may consider 20 percent a big raise, he said.

“There’s no doubt that a teacher walkout would have a negative impact on families,” he said.WASHINGTON (AP) — The internal watchdog at the Environmental Protection Agency has launched yet another investigation of travel and security spending involving embattled administrator Scott Pruitt.

EPA Inspector General Arthur Elkins wrote in a letter that his office will review spending by Pruitt’s full-time security detail at times when he wasn’t traveling for any official purpose. The review was requested by Democratic Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, who raised concerns about EPA security spending during a family vacation in which Pruitt went to Disneyland and attended a football game at the Rose Bowl.

Elkins office is now conducting at least a half dozen audits and investigations related to Pruitt and his security team. Separate reviews are also underway by Congressional oversight committees, the Office of Government Ethics and the White House.WASHINGTON (AP) — The Justice Department’s inspector general has sent a criminal referral about fired FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe to federal prosecutors in Washington, his lawyer said Thursday.

The referral to the U.S. attorney’s office for the District of Columbia does not mean McCabe will ever be charged, but it does raise the prospect that the longtime law enforcement official could face a criminal investigation into whether he illegally misled officials about his authorization of a news media disclosure. Prosecutors could decide to charge him if they conclude he intentionally lied.

McCabe’s lawyer, Michael Bromwich, said the standard for an inspector general referral is very low and he expected McCabe to avoid prosecution.

“We are confident that, unless there is inappropriate pressure from high levels of the administration, the US Attorney’s Office will conclude that it should decline to prosecute,” Bromwich said in a statement.

Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired McCabe last month, less than two days before his scheduled retirement, on the recommendation of FBI disciplinary officials who said McCabe had been dishonest in interviews with investigators. Justice Department officials declined to comment Thursday.

A report from the watchdog office released last week concluded that McCabe had misled investigators and his own boss, then-Director James Comey, about his role in an October 2016 Wall Street Journal article on an FBI investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

The report said McCabe authorized FBI officials to share nonpublic information with a reporter and then denied having done so when questioned about it under oath.

McCabe has denied misleading anyone. He said that as FBI deputy director, he had the authority to share information with the media and that he permitted subordinates to do so in this case to correct a false narrative that he had tried to stymie an FBI probe into the Clinton Foundation.

McCabe told the inspector general’s office that he told Comey after the article was published that he had allowed the officials to share the information and that Comey thought it was a “good” idea to rebut a one-sided narrative. But Comey is quoted in the report as saying McCabe didn’t tell him he had approved sharing details of the call and, in fact, had left him with the opposite impression.

“I don’t remember exactly how, but I remember some form or fashion and it could have been like ‘Can you believe this crap? How does this stuff get out’ kind of thing?” Comey is quoted as saying in the report. “But I took from whatever communication we had that he wasn’t involved in it.”

Comey said in an interview on CNN on Thursday that he felt “conflicted” about the inspector general’s findings that McCabe had lied.

“I like him very much as a person, but sometimes even good people do things they shouldn’t do,” Comey said. “I’ve read the report. I’m not the judge in the case. I’m not the discipline decision-maker in the case. I think it is accountability mechanisms working, and they should work because it’s not acceptable in the FBI or the Justice Department for people to lack candor.”

___

Follow Eric Tucker on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/etuckerAPWASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on fired FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe (all times local):

4:55 p.m.

A lawyer for fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe says a criminal referral to prosecutors about his client is “unjustified.”

Attorney Michael Bromwich confirmed the referral to the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Washington in a statement Thursday.

It comes amid an inspector general report that concluded that McCabe misled investigators about his role in a news media disclosure.

The referral doesn’t mean he will be charged, but it does mean he could face a criminal investigation.

In his statement, Bromwich says the standard for an inspector general referral “is very low.”

He says he’s already met with representatives from the U.S. Attorney’s office and is confident that, “unless there is inappropriate pressure from high levels of the Administration, the US Attorney’s Office will conclude that it should decline to prosecute.”

__

4:25 p.m.

The Justice Department’s inspector general has sent a criminal referral about fired FBI deputy director Andrew McCabe to federal prosecutors in Washington, a person familiar with the matter said Thursday.

The referral to the U.S. Attorney’s office for the District of Columbia does not mean McCabe will ever be charged, but it does raise the possibility that the longtime law enforcement official could face a criminal investigation into whether he illegally misled officials about a news media disclosure. Prosecutors could move to charge him if they conclude that he intentionally lied.

The person who described the referral was not authorized to discuss a confidential process publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity to The Associated Press.WASHINGTON (AP) — Mike Pompeo’s nomination for secretary of state received a boost Thursday with support from Democratic Sen. Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota as Republicans warned lawmakers not to reject President Donald Trump’s choice for top diplomat ahead of North Korea talks.

Just a handful of senators could determine Pompeo’s confirmation. Republicans have a narrow 51-49 majority, but Pompeo faces opposition from Democrats and at least one Republican, Sen. Rand Paul of Kentucky. Paul met with Pompeo on Thursday, at Trump’s request, but had no change in his position, the senator’s spokesman said.

“We need the Senate to approve Mike ASAP,” Trump tweeted Thursday. “He will be a great Secretary of State!”

As Pompeo, the current CIA director, walked the Senate halls this week to shore up support, political pressure was mounting on senators on both sides of the aisle.

White House allies are pushing the administration’s view that Pompeo’s recent high-stakes meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jung Un solidifies the diplomatic credentials of the West Point and Harvard Law graduate. They warned Democrats not to disrupt Trump’s efforts at a denuclearization deal.

“Obviously, he has the confidence of the president,” said Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. “It’s hard to imagine a better choice.”

At the same time, progressives are lighting up phone lines ahead of a crucial vote Monday at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where Pompeo faces almost unified opposition from Democrats. He may not be able to secure a favorable recommendation from the panel.

Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware, the last committee Democrat to disclose how he’ll vote, said calls are coming in overwhelmingly opposed to Pompeo. “I’m leaning against,” Coons said Wednesday.

Heitkamp, Sen. Joe Manchin or West Virginia and Sen. Joe Donnelly of Indiana are among several Democratic senators up for re-election in Trump-won states that the administration and its allies have spotlighted. All had voted for him as CIA director last year.

“I haven’t made up my mind,” Manchin said this week.

As the nomination moves to the Senate floor, the GOP’s slim majority, which slips with the absence of Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., who is battling cancer, puts Pompeo’s confirmation in the hands of a few key senators.

One Republican, Sen. Jeff Flake of Arizona, initially withheld his support this week for another Trump nominee, the new NASA administrator, as he pressed Pompeo about travel restrictions to Cuba, according to GOP leadership. The senator is an advocate for more open U.S.-Cuba relations.

Heitkamp does not serve on the Foreign Relations Committee, but her vote helps tip the Senate tally toward Pompeo.

Pompeo demonstrated during the nomination process and their meetings “that he is committed to empowering the diplomats at the State Department so they can do their jobs in advancing American interests,” she said in a statement.

“If he’s confirmed, I’ll hold Mr. Pompeo accountable to make sure he advances our country’s leadership in the world and supports our embassies – including by filling critical jobs that have been vacant, like for the U.S. Ambassador to South Korea.”

The nominee to replace Pompeo at the CIA is Gina Haspel, now the deputy director. Her Senate hearing is scheduled for May 9, and she, too, faces resistance.

___

Associated Press writer Zeke Miller in Washington contributed to this report.

___

Follow Mascaro on Twitter at https://twitter.com/LisaMascaroWASHINGTON (AP) — Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani is joining the legal team defending President Donald Trump in the special counsel’s Russia investigation, a Trump attorney said Thursday.

With the addition of Giuliani, Trump gains an experienced litigator and former U.S. attorney in Manhattan. Trump is looking to bring his involvement with special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation to a close, and is considering whether to sit for questioning by Mueller’s team.

Giuliani also fills the void left by attorney John Dowd, who resigned from the legal team last month.

Trump personal attorney Jay Sekulow told The Associated Press that Giuliani will be focusing on the Mueller investigation — not the legal matters raised by the ongoing investigation into Trump attorney Michael Cohen. That probe is being led by the U.S. attorney in Manhattan.

Cohen’s office, home and hotel room were raided last week by the FBI, provoking a backlash from Trump in which he publicly weighed whether to fire Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. He also intensified his public attacks on the Mueller investigation, calling it “an attack on our country.”

Trump’s legal team has been told by Mueller that the president is a subject of the investigation, not a target, though that designation can change at any time. In a statement announcing Giuliani’s hire, Trump expressed his wish that the investigation wrap up soon.

“Rudy is great,” Trump said. “He has been my friend for a long time and wants to get this matter quickly resolved for the good of the country.”

Giuliani will be joining Sekulow on Trump’s personal legal team but will be working closely with White House lawyer Ty Cobb, who has also been handling the administration’s cooperation with the Mueller investigation.

“It is an honor to be a part of such an important legal team, and I look forward to not only working with the President but with Jay, Ty and their colleagues,” Giuliani said in a statement.

In addition to Giuliani, two other former federal prosecutors — Jane Serene Raskin and Marty Raskin — will be joining Trump’s legal team.

__

Associated Press writer Eric Tucker contributed to this report.Washington (AFP) – The US Senate on Thursday narrowly confirmed President Donald Trump’s pick to head the space agency NASA, over objections from Democrats who warned he lacked a technical background.

Jim Bridenstine, a congressman from Oklahoma, US Navy veteran and former pilot, was confirmed on a 50-49 vote, and will become the 13th administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration seven months after Trump named him to lead the agency.

Bridenstine, 42, has expressed an interest in returning humans back to the moon, spoken of closer ties between NASA and the commercial space industry, and has voiced skepticism about human-caused climate change.

He was a strong supporter of Trump during the 2016 presidential race.

Senate Democrat Bill Nelson, a former astronaut from Florida, was unenthusiastic in his welcome for Bridenstine.

“The @NASA administrator should be a consummate space professional — not a politician,” Nelson tweeted.

“He or she must also be a leader who has the ability to bring us together on a shared vision for future space exploration.”

NASA’s previous full-time administrator, former astronaut Charles Bolden, resigned in January 2017.

The confirmation came as Trump complained in a tweet that Democrats are “‘slow walking’ all of my nominations.”

His pick for Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, is expected to be voted on next week.SPRINGFIELD, Ill. (AP) — Some Illinois lawmakers want to give extra money to schools that replace armed security officers with unarmed social workers and behavior therapists, an approach to safety that’s far different than a national push to add police or arm teachers following a mass shooting at a Florida high school.

Rep. Emanuel “Chris” Welch, a Hillside Democrat, said he proposed the plan after hearing from advocates who argue that investing in mental health resources is the best way of treating the epidemic of violence.

His plan, which is backed by 16 other Democrats in the House, would allow schools to apply to an optional grant if they promise to reallocate funding for school-based law enforcement to mental health services, including social workers or other practices “designed to promote school safety and healthy environments.”

But the measure could be a tough sell, especially amid a widespread effort to employ more of what’s known as school resource officers — fully armed law enforcement officers often paid for by schools.

As of early April, 200 bills or resolutions have been introduced in 39 states regarding school safety, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. More than half of these measures were introduced following the events in Parkland, Florida. Thirty-four bills in 19 states address regulations and training for school resource officers.

U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions proposed a school safety plan in March that included a measure prioritizing grants to states that agree to use the money to put more law enforcement in schools.

Michelle Mbekani-Wiley, from the Sargent Shriver Center on Poverty Law, said this approach is wrongheaded and that police are unequipped to recognize or respond to mental health issues. She adds that many minority students within the Chicago Public School system are arrested by school resource officers for non-serious offenses, which could jeopardize their chances of applying to jobs and colleges in the future.

“This increased presence of law enforcement in schools does not necessarily enhance school safety,” said Michelle Mbekani-Wiley from the Sargent Shriver Center for Poverty Law. “Instead it dramatically increases the likelihood that students will be unnecessarily swept into the criminal justice system often for mere adolescent or disruptive behavior.”

However, advocates for school resource officers argue their role is essential to keep students safe, especially in the event of a school shooting.

After Parkland, Deputy Kip Heinle, former president of the Illinois School Resource Officers Association, said he was “fielding two to three phone calls a day” from school districts asking how they can add more patrolling officers. While there’s no official count on how many school resource officers are employed in Illinois, he puts the estimate at around 500.

Heinle, who works as a school resource officer in an Illinois suburb of St. Louis, says he believes that the officers are “the best line of defense to keep students safe in school.”

He adds that, beyond preserving law and order in schools, he adds that many officers also act like a mentor and an informal counselor to many of their students, with the goal of “shaping them to be successful adults someday.”

School resource officers are not required to be trained in Illinois, but they can pay to take part in an optional annual training session each summer in Bloomington. Around 85 to 100 officers from around the state typically attend, said Heinle. No Chicago Public School officers have ever attended, he added.

__

The bill is HB4208

__

Follow Sarah Zimmerman at http://twitter.com/sarahzimm95Washington (AFP) – Former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani is joining President Donald Trump’s personal legal team, Trump lawyer Jay Sekulow announced on Thursday.

A week after federal agents raided the offices and residence of longtime Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, Sekulow sought to bolster the force protecting the president from mounting challenges on several sides.

“The president said, ‘Rudy is great. He has been my friend for a long time and wants to get this matter quickly resolved for the good of the country,’” Sekulow said in a statement.

Sekulow said Giuliani, who presided over New York City from 1994 to 2001, “expressed his deep appreciation to the president for allowing him to assist in this important matter.”

Sekulow also named two other lawyers to the White House team, Jane Serene Raskin and Marty Raskin, specialists in white collar criminal defense.

Trump is facing numerous legal challenges, including the investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller into possible links between the Trump campaign and Russia, as well as possible obstruction of justice; allegations that women were paid money to stay quiet about affairs they had with Trump; and challenges over his family businesses.

On March 22 the lead attorney on Trump’s legal team, John Dowd, resigned amid reported differences over how much Trump should cooperate with Mueller.

Since then the White House has had trouble recruiting attorneys to bolster the team.

“I’m doing it because I hope we can negotiate an end to this for the good of the country and because I have high regard for the president and for Bob Mueller,” Giuliani told The Washington Post on Thursday in an interview.WASHINGTON (AP) — The Pentagon said Thursday a “preponderance of the evidence” indicates there were chemical weapons, including “elements” of sarin nerve gas, at the three Syrian sites bombed by the U.S. and its allies last week. Any definitive conclusion probably will remain an open question for some time.

Marine Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie said at a Pentagon briefing that the United States believes the Syrian government, six days after the strikes, can still mount “limited attacks” but its ability to conduct research or improve chemical weapons has been degraded. He said its remaining chemical capabilities are “probably spread throughout the country at a variety of sites.”

McKenzie said if Syrian forces were considering possible future attacks, “they’ve got to look over their shoulder and be worried that we’re looking at them, and we’ll have the ability to strike them again.”

The American assessment underscored the difficulty in getting additional or more conclusive evidence about the Syrians’ suspected use of chemical weapons and verifying the allies’ success in destroying any large caches of chlorine gas or sarin.

“We believe the absolute preponderance of the evidence is that there were chemical weapons” at the targeted sites, including “elements of sarin particularly” at the Barzah research and development center in the Damascus area, said McKenzie, director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

That was the mostly heavily attacked of the three sites targeted in the missile barrage.

He said it was unlikely that the U.S. or allies would gain much access to the sites where the Syrian government reportedly conducted chemical attacks on its own people.

The U.S. and France say they have evidence that poison gas was used in Douma, east of the capital, where dozens of people died, and that President Bashar Assad’s military was behind it, but the two countries have not made that evidence public. Syria and its ally Russia deny any such attack took place.

McKenzie said that plume analysis from the allies’ missile strikes and the lack of civilian casualties in the area suggest that no chemical gas escaped into the atmosphere during the strikes that hit their targets early Saturday (Syrian time).

The U.S. military has said there was “probably” chlorine and “possibly” sarin at “possibly” all the sites.

Pentagon spokeswoman Dana W. White said there are no indications Syria is preparing to use chemical weapons again and there have been no reports of civilian casualties from the allied missile strikes.

McKenzie was asked about reports that the Syrians had turned two unexploded cruise missiles over to the Russians. He said he hadn’t heard anything about that.BEIRUT (AP) — The Syrian government took control of a town northeast of Damascus on Thursday after rebels evacuated to north Syria — the latest in a string of handovers by rebels to the government.

Residents in the town of Dumayr welcomed security forces into their town in a triumphant show for the cameras of the state-affiliated al-Ikhbariya TV station.

Waving the national flag, they lifted al-Ikhbariya TV correspondent Rabieh Dibeh onto their shoulders and chanted their support for President Bashar Assad, after the last of 5,000 rebels and family members boarded buses and left the town.

There have been several handovers by rebels to the government in the capital region following a punishing government offensive against the rebellious eastern Ghouta region earlier this year.

More than 1,500 civilians were killed in the offensive, which culminated in allegations of a chemical weapons attack on the town of Douma, with reports that more than 40 people were killed.

Rebels surrendered towns across eastern Ghouta as the offensive drove on, giving up control of an area once home to an estimated 400,000 people in a matter of weeks.

The Army of Islam rebels in Dumayr followed their companions belonging to the same group from Douma to Jarablus, a town in north Syria shared between Turkish and Syrian opposition control.

The Syrian government has been following a proven strategy of besieging opposition areas until residents and fighters, desperate for food, medical treatment and relief, give up and accept government control.

The bruising offensives have displaced hundreds of thousands of residents, and tens of thousands more choose to leave to north Syria than to submit again to the government and be conscripted by the military.

U.N. officials and human rights groups say the strategy and the evacuation arrangements amount to forced population displacement, a war crime.

A similar arrangement to have Islamic State militants evacuate their pocket inside the capital appeared to collapse on Thursday.

Government forces began bombarding the Hajr al-Aswad neighborhood and Yarmouk Palestinian camp inside Damascus only hours after reports surfaced that IS militants would be given two days to leave.

Local opposition activist Sami Dreid, in the nearby Yalda neighborhood, said the militants were expected to relocate to IS-held territory in the east Syrian desert. He said it was not clear why the deal appeared to have fallen through.

Dumayr, in the Qalamoun mountains, is a short drive away from Douma, the site of the alleged April 7 chemical weapons attack.

Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons were still not able to reach the scene on Thursday, 12 days after the suspected attack.

The attack prompted the United States, France and Britain to strike at suspected Syrian chemical weapons facilities. The three countries said they held the Syrian government and its ally Russia responsible.

Damascus and Moscow denied responsibility.

A U.N. security team touring the sites of the alleged attack on Tuesday was shot at and subjected to a blast, said OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu.

The security team was supposed to give the all-clear for OPCW inspectors to follow, but their visit was put on hold pending the security situation, Uzumcu added.

A U.N. spokesman said discussions were taking place in the Syrian capital to arrange security to allow OPCW inspectors to visit Douma.

Stephane Dujarric said the U.N. did not want to “telegraph” when a U.N. security team would return, “due to the volatility” of the situation on the ground.

State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said U.S. officials “have credible information that indicates that Russian officials are working with the Syrian regime to deny and to delay these inspectors from gaining access to Duma.”

“We believe it is an effort to conduct their own staged investigations,” Nauert told reporters in Washington. “Russian officials have worked with the Syrian regime, we believe, to sanitize the locations of those suspected attacks and remove incriminating evidence of chemical weapons use.”

Journalists visited Douma a day before the U.N. security team. They were not exposed to any weapons fire.

Associated Press journalists spoke to witnesses who said they were overwhelmed by the smell of chlorine and experienced fainting during an April 7 assault.

First responders released videos purporting to show fatalities from the attack — lifeless bodies collapsed in an apartment, with foam around their mouths, a sign of asphyxiation.

The Army of Islam, which controlled Douma at the time of the attack, surrendered the town to the government days later.

Also on Thursday, neighboring Iraq launched airstrikes inside Syria targeting militants from the Islamic State group.

Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi’s office said Iraqi fighter jets launched “lethal” airstrikes against the extremists in an area along the Syria-Iraq border. The statement said the militants posed a threat to Iraq, without providing further details.

Syrian and Iraqi forces have driven IS from nearly all the territory the group once held, but the extremists have maintained a presence in the remote desert areas along the border. Iraq has carried out airstrikes in Syria against the group in the past.

___

Associated Press writers Albert Aji in Damascus, Syria, Edith Lederer at the United Nations, and Sinan Salaheddin in Baghdad contributed to this report.HAVANA (AP) — The Latest on Raul Castro’s handover of Cuba’s presidency (all times local):

4:30 p.m.

Cuban-Americans in Miami aren’t expecting much change as President Miguel Diaz-Canel takes over from Raul Castro.

Many in South Florida who either fled the Cuban Revolution themselves or are related to people who did, have long been hostile to the government. But this latest development isn’t the kind of change they wanted.

Sixty-five-year-old Lourdes Diaz tells The Associated Press she sees nothing to distinguish the 57-year-old new president from his predecessor. The political adviser who left the island with her mother before Fidel Castro says life on the island will be “exactly” the same under the new leader.

Julio Cesar Alfonso, president of Solidarity Without Borders, calls the change of leadership a “farce.”

Attorney Wilfredo Allen who left Cuba in 1961 notes that Raul Castro will still control the Communist Party. Still, he says, “sometimes a cosmetic change becomes real.”

___

4 p.m.

Russia and China are among the countries sending congratulations to Cuba as a new president takes office on the island while the U.S. expressed “disappointment” over the event.

Cuban-state media said Russian President Vladimir Putin congratulated President Miguel Diaz-Canel and thanked the outgoing President Raul Castro for the many years of cooperation between the two countries.

Official media also said Chinese President Xi Jinping reaffirmed his country’s friendship with Cuba expressed interest in deeper ties.

But the U.S. State Department said Cuban citizens “had no real power to affect the outcome” of what spokeswoman Heather Nauert called an “undemocratic transition” that brought Diaz-Canal to the presidency.

The spokeswoman said the U.S. was not surprised by the outcome but “nevertheless disappointed.”

___

1:55 p.m.

Raul Castro’s retirement from the presidency of Cuba has its own theme song.

Cuban state media are enthusiastically promoting “The Last Mambi,” a tribute to Castro posted online by renowned trova singer Raul Torres.

Torres also wrote a tribute to Fidel Castro that was widely played in Cuba after the revolutionary leader’s death in November 2016.

Addressing Raul Castro, the new song says, “Now you can be happy/confident that you won’t be the last mambi/confident that there will be millions of arms/with their machetes at the ready.”

The mambis were machete-toting Cuban rebels against Spanish rule in the 19th century who become icons of Cuban nationalism for future governments, including the current communist administration.

___

1:25 p.m.

One of the fiercest congressional critics of Cuba’s government says the island’s new president is a “thug” who is just the “same as the old boss.”

Florida Republican Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen says Congress sees Thursday’s transition as “business as usual” and doesn’t expect diplomatic relations to improve under new President Miguel Diaz-Canel.

Raul Castro stepped down as president Thursday, ending 60 years of Castros holding the island’s top government position. But he remains head of the Communist Party, the country’s ultimate authority.

The Cuban-born lawmaker told The Associated Press Thursday that as long as Raul Castro remains, “There are really no changes.”

She said “It’s the whole system that is corrupt. It’s the communist, authoritarian, totalitarian regime.”

___

11 a.m.

Raul Castro says he sees new Cuban President Miguel Diaz-Canel as his eventual successor as head of the island’s powerful Communist Party.

Castro is making his first speech since handing the presidency over to Diaz-Canel, and used the opportunity to give his vision of the future.

He told members of the National Assembly Thursday that he expects Diaz-Canel to serve two five-year terms and can become head of the party once Castro leaves that position in 2021.

Castro praised Diaz-Canel’s leadership as a Communist Party official dating back to the “special period” of the 1990s when Cuba faced a deep economic crisis following the loss of subsidies because of the collapse of the Soviet Union.

Raul Castro served as president for two terms since 2008.

___

10:10 a.m.

President Mario Diaz-Canel has made his first speech as Cuba’s new head of state with a pledge to continue the socialist revolution led by his predecessors Fidel and Raul Castro.

Diaz-Canel says in the nationally televised speech before the National Assembly that his first thoughts upon taking office are for the “historic generation” that has led the country since the triumph of the Cuban Revolution in 1959.

The 57-year-old president says the country’s leadership cannot forget “for a second” its commitment to the people of Cuba.

Raul Castro sat in the front row of the assembly, gently rocking back and forth in his chair and occasionally seeming to nod in approval.

___

9 a.m.

Raul Castro has passed Cuba’s presidency to Miguel Diaz-Canel, putting the island’s government in the hands of someone outside the Castro family for the first time in nearly six decades. He remains head of the powerful Communist Party that oversees political and social activities.WASHINGTON (AP) — Tiny Maile Pearl made Senate history Thursday without making a sound.

The tightly wrapped 10-day-old baby, brought to the well of the chamber by her mother, Sen. Tammy Duckworth, became the first newborn to appear there, just one day after the Senate approved a new rule permitting it.

“It’s about time,” the Illinois Democrat and Iraq War veteran told reporters on the way in to vote.

The rule had passed without objection — but there had been plenty of grumbling about babies threatening the Senate’s cherished decorum. But when it actually happened, even stern Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell appeared to beam. In fact, he left a Senate vote open to allow Duckworth time to get there with little Maile Pearl Bowlsbey.

“Thank you very much,” Duckworth said to the Kentucky Republican. The double amputee, in a wheelchair with Maile, pronounced “Miley,” in her lap, was on the floor for less than three minutes before they took off.

Like newborns, the Senate can be unpredictable.

The first sign that the two would meet Thursday was a tweet by Duckworth that she might vote on the nomination of Rep. James Bridenstine to run NASA.

“May have to vote today. Maile’s outfit is prepped,” she tweeted, with a photo of baby clothes. “Made sure she has a jacket so she doesn’t violate the Senate floor dress code requiring blazers. Not sure what the policy is on duckling onesies but I think we’re ready.”

The idea was for Duckworth to vote only if she was needed to break a tie. Vice President Mike Pence arrived for the same reason. In the end, it was unnecessary and Bridenstine was confirmed. Duckworth cast a thumbs-down anyway, before her colleagues descended to coo over the wee baby. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer inquired about the well-being of Maile’s sister and wished them a safe trip home.

When Duckworth wheeled around to leave, reporters in the press gallery above got their first glimpse of the baby’s face, and a loud “aww” could be heard. The senators on the floor laughed, and Schumer called up to the gallery: “The press is finally interested in something worthwhile.”

Senators of both parties had been interested, too, for the past two months. But many of their concerns revolved around whether babies would disrupt “decorum,” the relatively civil style of discourse practiced in the Senate over the nation’s business. Even a day earlier, they were fairly open about that.

“I’m not going to object to anything like that, not in this day and age,” said Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., father of three and grandfather of six. He then noted that a person could stand in the door of the cloakroom, a lounge just off the chamber, and vote. “I’ve done it,” he said. Allowing babies on the Senate floor, he said, “I don’t think is necessary.”

Sen. Orrin Hatch, the father of six, grandfather of 14 and great-grandfather of 23, said he had “no problem” with such a rules change, but he hoped the parents of newborns would use “discretion” in bringing them. “What if there are 10 babies on the floor of the Senate?” he wondered.

On Thursday, there was only Maile, wearing a little pink cap and getting all the attention without a sound. Sen. Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., who had done some of the negotiating and behind-the-scenes reassuring of senators, clapped and gave Duckworth a hug when she arrived. With a big smile, Duckworth cast her “no” vote.

___

Associated Press Writers Padmananda Rama, Mary Clare Jalonick and Andrew Taylor contributed to this report.

___

Follow Kellman on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/APLaurieKellman

___

This story has been corrected to correct pronunciation of Maile.HAVANA (AP) — Raul Castro stepped down as president of Cuba on Thursday, handing power to a 57-year-old successor he said would hold power until 2031, a plan that would place the state the Castro brothers founded and ruled for six decades in the hands of a Communist Party official who remains little known to most people on the island.

Castro’s 90-minute valedictory speech offered his first clear vision for the nation’s future power structure under new President Miguel Mario Diaz-Canel Bermudez. Castro said he foresees the white-haired electronics engineer serving two five-year terms as leader of the Cuban government, and taking the helm of the Communist Party, the country’s ultimate authority, when Castro leaves the powerful position in 2021.

“From that point on, I will be just another soldier defending this revolution,” Castro said. The 86-year-old general broke frequently from his prepared remarks to joke and banter with officials on the dais in the National Assembly, saying he looked forward to having more time to travel the country.

In his own half-hour speech to the nation, Diaz-Canel pledged to preserve Cuba’s communist system while gradually reforming the economy and making the government more responsive to the people.

“There’s no space here for a transition that ignores or destroys the legacy of so many years of struggle,” Diaz-Canel said. “For us, it’s totally clear that only the Communist Party of Cuba, the guiding force of society and the state, guarantees the unity of the nation of Cuba.”

He said he would work to implement a long-term plan laid out by the National Assembly and Communist Party to permit moderate growth of private enterprises like restaurants and taxis, while leaving the economy’s most important sectors — energy, mining, telecommunications, medical services and rum- and cigar-production — in the hands of the state.

“The people have given this assembly the mandate to provide continuity to the Cuban Revolution during a crucial, historic moment that will be defined by all that we achieve in the advance of the modernization of our social and economic model,” Diaz-Canel said.

Cubans said they expected their new president to deliver improvements to the island’s economy, which remains stagnant, dominated by inefficient state-run enterprises that are unable to provide salaries high enough to cover basic needs. The average monthly pay for state workers is roughly $30 a month, forcing many to steal from their workplaces and depend on remittances from relatives abroad.

“I hope that Diaz-Canel brings prosperity,” said Richard Perez, a souvenir salesman in Old Havana. “I want to see changes, above all economic changes allowing people to have their own businesses, without the state in charge of so many things.”

But in Miami, Cuban-Americans said they didn’t expect much from Diaz-Canel.

Sixty-five-year-old Lourdes Diaz, who left Cuba as a child in 1955 before Fidel Castro, said life on the island will be “exactly” the same under the new president. Julio Cesar Alfonso, president of Solidarity Without Borders, called the change of leadership a “farce.”

“It’s a cosmetic change,” said Wilfriedo Allen, a 66-year-old lawyer in Miami who emigrated from Cuba in 1961. “The reality is that Raul Castro is still controlling the Communist Party. We are very far from having a democratic Cuba.”

After formally taking over from his brother, Fidel Castro, in 2008, Raul Castro launched a series of reforms that led to rapid expansion of Cuba’s private sector and burgeoning use of cellphones and internet. Cuba today has a vibrant real estate market and one of the world’s fastest-growing airports. Tourism numbers have more than doubled since Castro and President Barack Obama re-established diplomatic relations in 2015, making Cuba a destination for nearly 5 million visitors a year, despite a plunge in relations under the Trump administration.

Still, the Soviet-style command economy employs three of every four Cuban workers and produces little, while private sector growth has been largely frozen since last year. Foreign investment remains anemic and the island’s infrastructure is falling deeper into disrepair. The election of President Donald Trump dashed dreams of detente with the U.S., and after two decades of getting Venezuelan subsidies totaling more than $6 billion a year, Cuba’s patron has collapsed economically, with no replacement in the wings.

Castro’s moves to open the economy have largely been frozen or reversed as soon as they began to generate conspicuous shows of wealth by the new entrepreneurial class in a country officially dedicated to equality among its citizens. His inability or unwillingness to fix Cuba’s structural problems with deep and wide-ranging reforms has many wondering how a successor without Castro’s founding-father credentials will manage the country over the next five or 10 years.

“I want the country to advance,” said Susel Calzado, a 61-year-old economics professor. “We already have a plan laid out.”

With Castro watching from the audience, Diaz-Canel made clear that for the moment he would defer to the man who, along with his brother Fidel, has ruled one of the world’s last communist governments since 1959.

“I confirm to this assembly that Raul Castro, as first secretary of the Communist Party, will lead the decisions about the future of the country,” Diaz-Canel said. “Cuba needs him, providing ideas and proposals for the revolutionary cause, orienting and alerting us about any error or deficiency, teaching us, and always ready to confront imperialism.”

Most Cubans have known their new president as an uncharismatic figure who until recently maintained a public profile so low it was virtually nonexistent. That image changed slightly this year as state media placed an increasing spotlight on Diaz-Canel’s public appearances, including remarks to the press last month that included his promise to make Cuba’s government more responsive to its people, language he echoed on Thursday.

Diaz-Canel gained prominence in central Villa Clara province as the top Communist Party official, a post equivalent to governor. People there describe him as a hard-working, modest-living technocrat dedicated to improving public services. He became higher education minister in 2009 before moving into the vice presidency.

In a video of a Communist Party meeting that inexplicably leaked to the public last year, Diaz-Canel expressed a series of orthodox positions that included somberly pledging to shutter some independent media and labeling some European embassies as outposts of foreign subversion.

But he has also defended academics and bloggers who became targets of hard-liners, leading some to describe him a potential advocate for greater openness in a system intolerant of virtually any criticism or dissent. International observers and Cubans alike will be scrutinizing every move he makes in coming days and weeks.

As in Cuba’s legislative elections, all of the leaders selected Wednesday were picked by a government-appointed commission. Ballots offer only the option of approval or disapproval and candidates generally receive more than 95 percent of the votes in their favor. Diaz-Canel was approved by 604 votes in the 605-member assembly. It was unclear if he had abstained or someone else had declined to endorse him.

The assembly also approved another six vice presidents of the Council of State, Cuba’s highest government body. Only one, 85-year-old Ramiro Valdez, was among the revolutionaries who fought with the Castros in the late 1950s in the eastern Sierra Maestra mountains.

___

Associated Press writer Ben Fox contributed to this report.CHICAGO (AP) — The federal government cannot withhold public safety grants from cities that refuse to cooperate with President Donald Trump’s immigration enforcement policies, a federal appeals court ruled Thursday, agreeing with a lower court judge who had imposed a temporary injunction last year.

The decision by a three-judge panel of the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Thursday says the administration exceeded its authority in establishing a new condition for cities to qualify for the grants.

The administration in July imposed a condition that cities receiving public safety grants must agree to inform federal agents when immigrants in the country illegally are about to be released from police detention. Chicago was among several cities that sued the administration.

U.S. District Judge Harry Leinenweber last September granted Chicago’s request for a temporary nationwide injunction. All three judges agreed Thursday with Leinenweber, meaning the nationwide injunction will remain in force. But one judge issued a partial dissent, saying that the ruling should apply to Chicago only.

___

This version of the story corrects that the lower court ruling was last year not earlier this year.Washington (AFP) – Ten-day-old Maile got an extremely early introduction to US politics Thursday when her Senator mom Tammy Duckworth made her the first baby ever to visit the floor while the Senate was in session.

Duckworth, a Democrat, drew applause and a chorus of “awwws” from her colleagues when she made her much anticipated entrance, with her sleeping child on her lap and wearing a pink knit cap, to cast her vote against President Donald Trump’s nominee to head the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

The decorated Asian-American US Army veteran, who lost both legs in 2004 when her helicopter was shot down over Iraq, used her wheelchair to roll over to the Senate clerk to vote, and was then surrounded by well-wishing colleagues.

“It was quite lovely,” a beaming Duckworth told reporters afterwards, stressing how lawmakers including the Republican Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell were “very cordial and welcoming.”

Earlier this month Duckworth, 50, became the first sitting US Senator to give birth while in office.

On Thursday she broke another barrier, one day after the Senate took a major step into the 21st century by voting to change the rules to allow senator parents to bring their infant children on to the floor.

Senate Democrat Amy Klobuchar pushed for the rules change, successfully arguing that the Senate should be a more family-friendly workplace.

US law prevents congressional employees, who are paid by US taxpayers, from conducting the personal business of lawmakers, so the rule change accommodates parents of a newborn in the event they need to vote and care for their child at the same time.

A service dog was allowed on the floor in 1997, “but since then we have not expanded any access to the floor until this little Maile,” Klobuchar said.

“Now it’s a standard rule, because we believe that there will be other moms and dads that may want to bring their infants on the floor.”

Members of the House of Representatives are allowed to bring their children onto the floor of that chamber.

But the Senate’s rules are stricter, and it still bars child minors over age one from being brought onto the floor.

Duckworth’s vote was her first appearance in the Senate since giving birth.

Asked how she was doing and whether she has been getting much sleep, Duckworth jokingly shot back: “I’ve got a 10-day old, I’m not getting no sleep!”WASHINGTON (AP) — NASA’s latest nail-biting drama was far from orbit as the Senate narrowly confirmed President Donald Trump’s choice of a tea party congressman to run the space agency in an unprecedented party-line vote.

In a 50-49 vote Thursday, Oklahoma Rep. James Bridenstine, a Navy Reserve pilot, was confirmed as NASA’s 13th administrator, an agency that usually is kept away from partisanship. His three predecessors — two nominated by Republicans — were all approved unanimously. Before that, one NASA chief served under three presidents, two Republicans and a Democrat.

The two days of voting were as tense as a launch countdown.

A procedural vote Wednesday initially ended in a 49-49 tie — Vice President Mike Pence, who normally breaks a tie, was at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida — before Arizona Republican Jeff Flake switched from opposition to support, using his vote as leverage to address an unrelated issue.

Thursday’s vote included the drama of another delayed but approving vote by Flake, a last-minute no vote by Illinois Democrat Tammy Duckworth — who wheeled onto the floor with her 10-day-old baby in tow — and the possibility of a tie-breaker by Pence, who was back in town.

NASA is a couple years away from launching a new giant rocket and crew capsule to replace the space shuttle fleet that was retired in 2011.

“I look forward to working with the outstanding team at NASA to achieve the president’s vision for American leadership in space,” Bridenstine said in a NASA release after the vote.

Democrats opposing Bridenstine said his outspoken divisiveness, earlier rejection of mainstream climate change science and lack of space experience made him unqualified. Republicans praised him as a qualified war hero.

“His record of behavior in the Congress is as divisive as any in Washington, including his attacks on members of this body from his own party,” Florida Democrat Bill Nelson said. “It’s hard to see how that record will endear, and by extension NASA, him to Congress, and most importantly, endear him to the American people. “

Sen. Edward Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat, cited past Bridenstine comments that rejected mainstream climate science, invoking the movie “Apollo 13.”

“Houston, we have a problem,” Markey said. “NASA’s science, NASA’s mission and American leadership will be in jeopardy under Congressman Bridenstine’s leadership.”

During his confirmation hearing, Bridenstine said he acknowledges that global warming is real and man-made, but wouldn’t say that it was mostly human-caused, as the overwhelming majority of scientists and scientific literature do. And Bridenstine told Nelson, “I want to make sure that NASA remains, as you said, apolitical.”

Texas Republican Ted Cruz praised the NASA nominee as “a war hero.”

“NASA needs a strong leader and it will have that strong leader in Jim Bridenstine,” Cruz said.

Sean O’Keefe, who was NASA chief under President George W. Bush and was confirmed unanimously, said the close vote “is a consequence of an erosion of comity in the Congress, particularly in the Senate. Political fights will always break out, but now most policy choices are more likely to emerge based on the party with the majority than the power of the idea.”

Alan Ladwig, a top NASA political appointee under Democrats, said this was a case of both party politics and a divisive nominee who doesn’t accept science.

__

Associated Press writers Mary Claire Jalonick and Lisa Mascaro contributed to this report.

___

Follow Seth Borenstein on Twitter at @borenbears . His work can be found here .PHOENIX (AP) — The public education uprisings that began in West Virginia and spread to Arizona, Oklahoma and Kentucky share similar origin stories.

Teachers, long tired of low wages and a dearth of state funding, begin talking to each other online.

Their Facebook groups draw tens of thousands of members. They share stories of their frustrations and then they demand change.

Kentucky public school employee Nema Brewer co-founded the KY120 United Facebook group that drew more than 40,000 members in a month. Teachers there are calling for more education funding, triggering actions that forced more than 30 schools to close last Friday.

“We had no idea it would light a fire under people,” Brewer said.

Educators communicating online played a key role in forming grassroots groups that are storming statehouses and holding demonstrations. It started in West Virginia, where two teachers set up a private Facebook page last fall that grew to 24,000 members. The group provided a private forum for educators to plot strategy, bolster resistance and plan demonstrations. After they went on strike and won a pay raise, educators elsewhere took notice.

Jennifer Grygiel, a communications and social media professor at Syracuse University, said people are increasingly realizing they can coordinate online for social causes, such as the #MeToo movement. Engaging online can also be a way for people to form their own identities, she said. “It’s where we congregate now.”

In Arizona, teachers formed a Facebook group called Arizona Educators United that now has more than 40,000 members. Co-founder Noah Karvelis said social media has been “incredibly vital.” He said the first #RedforEd demonstration day was Twitter-driven.

Most recently, the group used Facebook Live to share news of a planned vote on whether to strike in their quest for a 20-percent raise and more than $1 billion in new education funding. Voting started Tuesday after Gov. Doug Ducey has put forward a proposal to raise salaries 20 percent by 2020 and the voting was scheduled to end Thursday.

The online genesis of the Arizona movement cropped up outside of organized labor. But Arizona Education Association President Joe Thomas said the union stands in solidary with the grassroots group. He spoke at a rally where Arizona Educators United unveiled their demands, joined them in a letter to Ducey asking for a meeting, and appeared in a video on the Facebook page.

He called Arizona Educators United a “breath of fresh air” in the fight for higher education funding.

“It shares the same purpose, and that’s why I think we can stand so easily next to each other,” he said. “I’ve said multiple times, ‘I don’t care who throws the touchdown, I want to win the game.'”

Tammy Custis has been acting as a site liaison for Arizona Educators at the school where she teaches in Peoria. In addition to staying tuned into the main Facebook group and a few other discussion pages, she’s using communication apps to stay in touch with teachers at her school about organizing efforts so they don’t have to use district resources. Online platforms have been key to staying connected, she said.

“It’s amazing how engaged these already-so-busy-teachers are in this fight,” she said. “They are finding a way to get their teaching done, and still finding time to have a voice.”

In Oklahoma, eighth-grade history teacher Alberto Morejon in early March founded the Facebook group supporting a teacher walk-out that’s now being used by about 80,000 teachers. Morejon, who said he doesn’t belong to a union, is continuing to push for new funding for public education.

“We’re going to keep showing up until they do something,” he said.

Once it started, the group grew quickly; within six hours of adding members to the newly created group, it had 17,000 members.

“I think it shows there’s a problem, and it needs to be fixed,” Morejon said.

Beth Becker, a social media coach and strategist in progressive politics, said that social media is “the great democratizer” and thus a powerful organizing tool.

“It has given a voice to people who in the past didn’t have a voice, because they didn’t have that $1 million to buy a member of Congress with,” she said.

But online activism can’t be the sole front, she said. Marches and demonstrations are still necessary to draw attention to a cause, Becker said, citing the Parkland, Florida, students becoming activists to change gun laws and spurring the March for Our Lives.

“You’re not going to win just because of your social media or anything online, but you’re not going to win without it,” she said.

___

Additional reporting by Michael Virtanen and John Raby in West Virginia and Sean Murphy in Oklahoma.BOERNE, Texas (AP) — Tammie Jo Shults was determined to “break into the club” of male military aviators.

One of the first female fighter pilots in the U.S. Navy, Shults flew training missions as an enemy pilot during Operation Desert Storm, while working with other women to see a rule excluding them from combat flights repealed.

Twenty-five years later, Shults was at the controls of the Dallas-bound Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 Tuesday when it made an emergency landing in Philadelphia after one of the engines on the Boeing 737 exploded while the plane was traveling 500 mph (800 kph) at 30,000 feet (9144 m) with 149 people on board.

Shrapnel hit the plane and passengers said they had to rescue a woman who was being blown out of a damaged window. The woman later died of blunt force trauma to her head, neck and torso.

Shults calmly relayed details about the crisis to air traffic controllers, and passengers commended her handling of the situation.

“Everybody is talking about Tammie Jo and how cool and calm she was in a crisis, and that’s just Tammie Jo,” said Rachel Russo, a friend from Shults’ church in Boerne, Texas, about 30 miles (48 km) northwest of San Antonio. “That’s how she’s wired.”

Shults and the other pilot on board, First Officer Darren Ellisor, said in a statement Wednesday that they were simply doing their jobs.

“On behalf of the entire Crew, we appreciate the outpouring of support from the public and our coworkers as we all reflect on one family’s profound loss,” the two pilots said, adding that their “hearts are heavy.”

Shults was commissioned into the Navy in 1985 and reached the rank of lieutenant commander, said Commander Ron Flanders, spokesman for Naval Air Forces in San Diego.

She was among the few to learn to fly the F/A-18 Hornet, a single-seat jet and the Navy’s premier strike fighter aircraft, a privilege reserved for elite pilots, according to retired Navy helicopter pilot Andi Sue Phillips.

“When you pull those g’s, you can actually feel your organs slamming on the inside of your ribs,” Phillips said. “It’s exhausting to put your body through those maneuvers.”

Phillips said that that there was a lot of resistance for women to fly jets and for Shults “to fly a fighter aircraft when nobody even wanted her there is pretty amazing.”

Women aviators were excluded from combat missions until the month after Shults got off active duty in March 1993. Flanders said Shults flew during Operation Desert Storm trainings as an aggressor enemy pilot, helping “male pilots hone their skills.”

“Obviously it was frustrating,” said Veteran Navy combat aviator Linda Maloney, who became among the first women to join a combat military flying squadron and was deployed to the Arabian Gulf. “We go through the same training that the guys do, and our hope was the Navy would allow us to fly in combat at some point.”

Maloney featured Shults in her book, “Military Fly Moms,” along with the stories and photos of 69 other women U.S. military veterans.

Shults wrote in the book about her determination to “break into the club” of male military aviators.

“There did not seem to be a demand for women pilots,” she said, adding that her Hornet flight training squadron did not share her commander’s “open-mindedness about flying with women.”

Russo and Staci Thompson, who has known Shults for about 20 years and was nanny to her two children when they were small, said she “loved” her military career but has alluded to frustrations and challenges that came with it.

They also said she embraced those experiences to make her stronger and guide her into a role as a mentor to young female pilots or girls thinking about a military career.

“She learned a lot about overcoming things as a woman in a male-dominated field,” Russo said.

Shults grew up in a New Mexico ranch near Holloman Air Force Base, and was a 1983 graduate of MidAmerica Nazarene University in Olathe, Kansas, where she earned degrees in biology and agribusiness.

Her husband, Dean Shults, also is a Southwest pilot.

“She’s a formidable woman, as sharp as a tack,” said Gary Shults, a dentist in San Antonio. “My brother says she’s the best pilot he knows.”

___

Schmall reported from Fort Worth, Texas. Associated Press writers Adam Kealoha Causey in Oklahoma City, Ben Finley in Norfolk, Virginia, and Terry Wallace and business writer David Koening in Dallas contributed to this story.BOISE, Idaho (AP) — Anti-abortion rhetoric is intensifying ahead of midterm elections as a rush of officials in Republican-dominant states push legislation that would punish both doctors and patients, even though such laws are likely unconstitutional.

In Idaho, Republicans competing in a crowded field for governor have made it a major campaign issue ahead of the May 15 primary. One candidate promised to back a long-shot effort that would allow women to be prosecuted for getting abortions, and another offered tepid support but doubted it would survive a legal challenge.

Politicians in states from Ohio to Oklahoma are pushing similar measures or promising to criminalize abortion as they seek office. It comes despite courts temporarily blocking stringent laws passed recently in Mississippi and Kentucky.

Targeting patients for punishment is a stance that traditionally has raised eyebrows even from staunch anti-abortion groups that tend to treat women as victims, not criminals, for choosing to end a pregnancy.

However, with President Donald Trump’s administration embracing anti-abortion groups and promising to appoint federal judges who will favor efforts to roll back abortion rights, Republican state leaders have become more emboldened to support the idea without facing backlash from their conservative base.

Supporters of punitive legislation say that believing abortion is murder means the act must be punished as such, which could include life in prison or the death penalty.

The stance openly defies the U.S. Supreme Court, which has ruled that a woman has the right to choose an abortion without “undue interference” from the state. It also conflicts with other anti-abortion advocates. Many Catholics, for example, oppose both abortion and the death penalty.

The high court legalized abortion in 1973, but anti-abortion advocates hope Roe v. Wade will soon be overruled if Trump gets the chance to appoint a justice who would cast the deciding vote against it.

In the meantime, a push for legislation punishing women has taken hold in Idaho, which has passed anti-abortion measures almost every year. A handful of bills have failed to stand up to legal challenges.

This year, Idaho required women seeking abortions to be informed that the drug-induced procedures can be halted halfway, despite opposition from medical groups that say there is little evidence to support that claim.

The group Abolish Abortion Idaho has launched a ballot initiative seeking to charge abortion providers and women who end pregnancies with first-degree murder, but it doesn’t appear it will qualify for the November ballot. The group has not yet submitted any signatures to be verified before an April 30 deadline.

Idaho candidates also have voiced their support for punishing women. This month, a GOP lieutenant governor candidate said during a forum that “anyone who has an abortion should pay.”

State Sen. Bob Nonini later softened his position, clarifying that the threat of prosecution could drastically reduce abortion but he did not believe women would actually face the death penalty.

His comment attracted swift condemnation from groups who fight for abortion rights.

“What’s pro-life about convicting women of first-degree murder for accessing abortion care? Absolutely nothing,” national nonprofit NARAL Pro-Choice America said in a statement. “It’s no surprise that the party that claims to be pro-life supports a guy who wants to impose the death penalty on women accessing health care.”

One of Nonini’s Republican opponents, former state Rep. Janice McGeachin, responded at the forum that she opposed abortion but did not believe women should be killed for having the procedure.

Top Idaho GOP gubernatorial candidate Tommy Ahlquist said at another forum months earlier that he would support legislation allowing women to be prosecuted for abortions. He was responding to a question from a Republican lawmaker who wants to push such legislation but hasn’t introduced it at the Statehouse.

Ahlquist’s campaign has since reiterated his stance to The Associated Press, assuming lawmakers passed the measure.

His challenger, Lt. Gov. Brad Little, also said at the forum that he would like to sign such a measure into law but acknowledged that it might not stand up in court. Little also said he “probably would” support it but had not seen anything in writing.

“From my standpoint, my right-to-life voting record is clear, and I would have to look at it, obviously,” he said. “We have passed some of those bills that have gone to be judicially overrode by a federal court and that would be the risk that would appear there (with this bill).”

Outside Idaho, such legislation also has taken hold in statehouses and on the campaign trail.

In Ohio, Republican lawmakers introduced legislation that would ban all abortions and allow prosecutors to charge doctors and patients who get the procedure, including the death penalty or life imprisonment with no exceptions for rape, incest or to protect the health of the woman.

Oklahoma gubernatorial candidate Dan Fisher, a Republican, has described himself as the only candidate who would call for an emergency legislative session to criminalize abortion if elected.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — The Latest on the Southwest Airlines plane that made an emergency landing in Philadelphia (all times local):

12:45 p.m.

Southwest Airlines sought more time to inspect fan blades like the one that snapped off during one of its flights and caused an engine breakup that left a passenger dead.

The airline opposed a recommendation by the engine manufacturer to require ultrasonic inspections of certain fan blades within 12 months, saying it needed more time to conduct the inspections.

Southwest made the comments last year after U.S. regulators proposed making the inspections mandatory. The Federal Aviation Administration has not yet required airlines to conduct the extra inspections but said late Wednesday that it would do so in the next two weeks.

The recommendation for more inspections followed an engine blowup on a 2016 Southwest flight.

On Tuesday, the engine on another Southwest jet exploded over Pennsylvania and debris hit the plane. A woman was killed.

___

9:45 a.m.

A Texas firefighter on the Southwest Airlines flight that made an emergency landing in Philadelphia says his wife gave him the OK to leave his family and move toward the rear of the plane to aid a woman who had been partially blown through a damaged window.

An emotional Andrew Needum told reporters Thursday that he was traveling with his wife, two young children and parents when they heard a loud pop Tuesday.

Needum says he heard a commotion behind him and his wife, Stephanie, nodded at him to go help 43-year-old Jennifer Riordan.

Federal investigators say an engine blew apart Tuesday on the flight from New York to Dallas, sending debris into the fuselage and shattering a window.

Riordan was sitting near the window and was pulled partially through. She later died.

___

11:40 p.m.

U.S. airline regulators have ordered inspections on engine fan blades like the one that snapped off a Southwest Airlines plane, leading to the death of a woman who was partially blown out a window.

The Federal Aviation Administration’s announcement late Wednesday comes nearly a year after the engine’s manufacturer recommended the additional inspections, and a month after European regulators ordered their airlines to do the work.

Pressure for the FAA to act grew after an engine on a Southwest plane blew apart on Tuesday, showering the aircraft with debris and shattering a window. A woman sitting next to the window was partially blown out and died of her injuries. The plane, which was headed from New York to Dallas, made an emergency landing in Philadelphia.WASHINGTON (AP) — A medicine made from the marijuana plant moved one step closer to U.S. approval Thursday after federal health advisers endorsed it for the treatment of severe seizures in children with epilepsy.

If the Food and Drug Administration follows the group’s recommendation, GW Pharmaceuticals’ syrup would become the first drug derived from the cannabis plant to win federal approval in the U.S.

The 13-member FDA panel voted unanimously in favor of the experimental medication made from a chemical found in cannabis — one that does not get users high. The panelists backed the drug based on three studies showing that it significantly reduced seizures in children with two rare forms of childhood epilepsy.

“This is clearly a breakthrough drug for an awful disease,” said panel member Dr. John Mendelson, of the Friends Research Institute in Baltimore, Maryland.

The drug carries a potential risk of liver damage, but panelists said doctors could monitor patients for any signs. More common side effects included diarrhea, vomiting, fatigue and sleep problems.

FDA regulators are due to make their decision by late June. Approval would technically limit the drug, called Epidiolex, to patients with hard-to-treat forms of epilepsy. But doctors would have the option to prescribe it for other uses and it could spur new pharmaceutical research and interest into other cannabis-based products.

More than two dozen states allow marijuana use for a variety of ailments, but the FDA has not approved it for any medical use. The FDA has approved synthetic versions of another cannabis ingredient for other medical purposes.

Several patients and parents at Thursday’s meeting spoke about the benefits of Epidiolex. Sam Vogelstein, 16, said he experienced daily seizures — at times more than 100 per day— before enrolling in a study of the drug.

“I just went to South Africa for two weeks without my parents on a school trip,” said Vogelstein, who lives in Berkeley, California. “I would not have been able to do that if I had not tried this medication.”

It’s not yet clear why the medicine reduces seizures.

Epidiolex is essentially a pharmaceutical-grade version of cannabidiol, or CBD oil, which some parents have used for years to treat children with epilepsy. CBD is one of more than 100 chemicals found in the cannabis plant and it doesn’t contain THC, the ingredient that gives marijuana its mind-altering effect.

CBD oil is currently sold online and in specialty shops across the country, though its legal status remains murky. Most producers say their oil is made from hemp, a form of cannabis that contains little THC and can be legally farmed in a number of states for clothing, food and other uses.

It’s unclear how FDA approval of a CBD drug would affect products already on the market. Executives for the British drugmaker GW Pharmaceuticals say their goal is to provide a more standardized, research-backed version.

“We’re not looking to impact the availability of other products on the market,” GW executive Steve Schultz said before the meeting. “Our goal is to provide an additional option for patients and physicians who desire a purified version of CBD for treatment of seizures.”

The company declined to comment on the price of the drug before the approval decision. Wall Street analysts estimate it could cost more than $25,000 per year.

___

The Associated Press Health & Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.

___

Matthew Perrone can be followed on Twitter: @ AP_FDAwriterWASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on the Senate and a rule change allowing newborns of members into the chamber (all times local):

2:44 p.m.

Sen. Tammy Duckworth and daughter Maile have made Senate history.

The Illinois Democrat brought her daughter, in a pink hat, onto the Senate floor under new rules that permitted it. Duckworth already is the only senator to have given birth while serving in the Senate. Maile, born April 9, is the first senator’s baby to be allowed on the chamber floor.

The history was made under a new rule passed a day earlier that permitted newborns of senators on the floor during votes. The Republican-controlled Senate held the vote open so Duckworth and Maile could adhere to the new rule. Duckworth, an Iraq war veteran and double-amputee, arrived in a wheelchair with Maile on her lap, voted no with a downturned thumb, and laughed. Her colleagues crowded around to see.

____

12:38 a.m.

Not just anybody can come onto the floor of the Senate — not even babies. Prompted by the first sitting senator with a newborn, the Senate has decided to allow the babies of its members into the chamber, but not before some coaxing.

Illinois Democrat Tammy Duckworth gave birth to a daughter on April 9. Minnesota Democrat Amy Klobuchar says private assurances that babies wouldn’t disrupt the Senate were offered to members of both parties.

Still, there were reservations. Kansas Republican Pat Roberts noted that a senator could vote from a nearby lounge and said allowing babies on the floor wasn’t necessary. Utah Republican Orrin Hatch asked, “What if there are 10 babies on the floor of the Senate?”

In the end, no senator objected to the rules change.KEY WEST, Fla. (AP) — President Donald Trump said he received a “great education” during an anti-drug trafficking briefing Thursday that underscored the need for the wall he has promised to build along the U.S.-Mexico border to help stop drug smuggling.

“Drugs are flowing into our country,” Trump said in the Florida Keys. “We need border protection. We need the wall. We have to have the wall.”

The president traveled from Palm Beach, where he is spending the week, to the tourist haven of Key West for the update from the Joint Interagency Task Force South. The agency is responsible for monitoring drug trafficking by sea, by air and online. Last year, it helped disrupt a record 283 metric tons of cocaine and detained nearly 900 suspected members of drug trafficking organization.

Trump said drugs are coming into the U.S. through the Pacific and the Caribbean. He said human trafficking is another big problem.

The president has made it a priority to crack down on the flow of illegal drugs but has spoken less often about illicit substances that arrive via U.S. ports and the mail system. He has instead focused on the “big, beautiful wall” he made one of his signature campaign promises.

In Key West, Trump marveled at the size of the crowds that lined the streets as his motorcade snaked through the island city. Many people waved colorful signs that commended or insulted him, including “You’re fired,” ”Thanks for saving our country,” and “Slimeball go home.” Other people cheered or booed as Trump passed. Several raised middle fingers in protest.

The president, a former reality TV star, relished the attention.

“I hope you saw the crowds in Key West. They’ve never seen anything like that. It was really very inspirational,” he told reporters between stops. “And what we just witnessed was incredible. But those crowds coming in, I think even the media will have to say that was quite something.”WASHINGTON (AP) — The Trump administration moved Thursday to make it easier for U.S. defense contractors to sell armed drones and other conventional weapons to foreign governments.

In policy changes aimed at boosting American firms’ ability to compete in the increasingly lucrative global arms market, the administration said it is removing restrictions that barred U.S. manufacturers from directly marketing and selling drones, including those that are armed or can be used to guide missile strikes, abroad. Previously, foreign countries had to go through the U.S. government to buy such drones. They will now be able to deal directly with the companies, although the government will retain oversight.

Despite Thursday’s changes, the government must still approve the sales by overcoming a presumption of denial contingent on human rights and proliferation considerations. Sales will also remain subject to congressional review.

Still, the revisions are likely to draw opposition from lawmakers and human rights groups that have long urged that military sales, particularly those of drones, be more restrictive rather than less. Administration officials said concerns about the potential for civilian casualties and the possibility that the weapons could be illegally transferred will be addressed in the review process.

In addition to the drone-specific changes to the policies, the revisions will add U.S. economic interests as a primary consideration in broader arms export control reviews. Among other things, that could allow foreign governments to get assistance to purchase U.S. weaponry they might not otherwise be able to afford, officials said.

Peter Navarro, director of the White House Office of Trade and Manufacturing Policy, said the moves underscore President Donald Trump’s belief that “economic security is national security.” He noted that U.S. defense contractors support 2.5 million jobs and are responsible for nearly a trillion dollars a year in economic activity.

“Partners who acquire American weapons are more capable of fighting alongside us and ultimately more capable of defending themselves with fewer American boots on the ground,” he said. In addition, Navarro said the changes would blunt an increasing trend of countries choosing to purchase Chinese “knock-offs” of American military materiel or Russian systems that are cheaper but not of the same quality as U.S. products.

The new policies were announced a day after Trump said his administration was working to streamline approvals of arms sales to U.S. allies and partners.

“When they order military equipment from us, we will get it taken care of and they will get their equipment rapidly,” Trump told reporters at a joint news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Florida on Wednesday. “It would be, in some cases, years before orders would take place because of bureaucracy with Department of Defense, State Department. We are short-circuiting that. It’s now going to be a matter of days. If they’re our allies, we are going to help them get this very important, great military equipment. And nobody, nobody, makes it like the United States. It’s the best in the world by far.”WASHINGTON (AP) — Federal authorities for the first time are offering a reward of up to $1 million for information leading to an American journalist who has been missing in Syria for more than five years.

Austin Tice, of Houston, Texas, disappeared in August 2012 while covering Syria’s civil war. A video released a month later showed him blindfolded and held by armed men saying “Oh, Jesus.” He has not been heard from since.

Tice is a former Marine who has reported for The Washington Post, McClatchy Newspapers, CBS and other outlets, and disappeared shortly after his 31st birthday.

The circumstances surrounding his disappearance are still a mystery. It’s not clear what entity is holding him and no ransom demand has ever been made. But a newly released FBI poster urges people to report any information that could lead to his location, recovery or return.

The FBI did not say why it was offering the reward money now, only that it was unrelated to any specific event or new piece of information. An FBI spokeswoman would not say how officials settled on the $1 million sum, only that reward payment amounts are based on a number of factors including “the severity of the danger or injury” to a U.S. citizen and the risk to the source providing the information.

Tice’s parents have said they believe he is still alive and the U.S. and Syrian governments have assured them they are working to secure his safe release.PODGORICA, Montenegro (AP) — The European Union foreign policy chief on Thursday hailed efforts by nations in Western Balkans to advance toward membership in the bloc, ending a tour of the volatile region where Russia is also vying for influence.

Federica Mogherini spoke in Serbian capital Belgrade, the last stop of her trip that also included Albania, Macedonia and Montenegro. The region remains tense following the wars of the 1990s and the prospect of EU membership has proved an important driving force at reform.

“Let me say that I am impressed by the energy, the commitment, the ambitions and the willingness everywhere … to move forward on the reform path toward the European Union membership,” Mogherini said at a joint news conference with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic.

The prospect of EU membership is “credible, real and tangible,” Mogherini insisted.

EU officials have told Balkan countries they must resolve problems stemming from the breakup of the former Yugoslavia and implement a vast array of reforms in order to join.

Macedonia has been locked in a name dispute with EU member Greece, while Serbia must normalize relations with the former province of Kosovo, whose 2008 declaration of independence it doesn’t recognize.

In the latest illustration of regional tensions, a Croatian parliamentary delegation cut short a visit to Serbia on Wednesday after far-right Serbian leader and convicted war criminal Vojislav Seselj reportedly trampled on the Croatian national flag and insulted officials.

Mogherini condemned the incident as “inappropriate in democratic institutions” noting that it was “not rendering good service to the image of Serbia.”

Earlier Wednesday in Montenegro, Mogherini praised the Adriatic country’s role in encouraging other Balkan countries on the EU path and because its policies were fully in line with those of the EU.

Montenegro, along with neighboring Serbia, has been tipped as the next in line to join the EU, after becoming a member of NATO last year despite strong opposition from Moscow.

Mogherini says Montenegro must work to improve the rule of law and media freedom. She was the first foreign official to meet Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic since he swept the election last weekend, promising to stay on the EU path.

Russia has sought to increase its sway in the Balkans, which Moscow considers a traditional area of interest, particularly in Serbia. Belgrade has maintained close ties to Moscow, despite formally seeking EU membership.GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP) — Gaza protest organizers moved sit-in tents closer to the Israeli border fence Thursday, a day before a fourth planned mass demonstration, raising fears of more bloodshed.

The protests, largely led by Gaza’s Hamas rulers, began March 30. Organizers said they’ll gradually move the camps toward the fence until May 15, but made conflicting comments about a possible breach.

Hamas says the protests are aimed at breaking a crippling border blockade that was imposed by Israel and Egypt after the Islamic militant group overran the territory in 2007, a year after winning Palestinian parliament elections. The marches also press for the return of the descendants of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians who fled or were forced from homes in the 1948 war over Israel’s creation.

While some organizers portray the protests as peaceful, Hamas and representatives of other factions have made it clear that a border breach is being considered.

“We will cross the border,” said Daoud Shehab, a member of the organizing committee from the smaller Islamic Jihad group, adding that Israel “should feel really jittery as a result of these marches.”

Israeli military officials have warned that they will not tolerate a mass border breach or permit protesters to get close to the fence. Israel’s military said Thursday that it is ready for all scenarios and is “prepared to prevent any breach of Israeli sovereignty or damage to the border fence.” Several Israeli communities are close to the border.

Rights groups have branded Israel’s open-fire regulations as unlawful, saying they permit soldiers to use potentially lethal force against unarmed protesters.

In the past three weeks, Israeli troops firing from across the border fence have killed 28 protesters and wounded more than 1,500, according to Gaza health officials.

During the weekly Friday marches, most protesters have remained in the five sit-in tent camps, but smaller groups have moved toward the fence, throwing stones, hurling firebombs or burning tires.

On Thursday, organizers moved tent camps several dozen meters closer to the fence.

In a camp east of Gaza City, five tents were moved to within 300 meters (328 yards) of the border, just in range of tear gas volleys. Bulldozers also raised protective sand berms around the new tents. In another protest site in southeastern Gaza, earth mounds were created to define the camp’s new boundary.

Meanwhile, activists were testing new means of confronting Israel — kites with burning rags dangling from their tails. The aim is to set ablaze drying wheat fields on the Israeli side.

In the camp near Gaza City, activists flew two kites Thursday. One fell short in Gaza. The other reached its destination but failed to start a fire.

Several fires have been started in wheat fields on the Israeli side of the border by such contraptions in recent days, according to the Times of Israel news website.

The Facebook page of the Gaza protest organizers published images Wednesday of Israeli fields behind the fence, taken from a small camera attached to a kite.

Thursday’s development came as Israel was celebrating 70 years since the modern Jewish state was established.

Festivities began the night before when in sharp contrast, Israel abruptly crossed over from its melancholy Memorial Day for fallen soldiers and terrorism victims.

The grouping of the two days is intentional, to show the link between the costly wars Israel has fought and the establishment and survival of the Jewish state.WASHINGTON (AP) — The Pentagon says there have been no reports of civilian casualties from last week’s missile strikes by the United States, France and Britain.

Spokeswoman Dana W. White said this is a testament to the accuracy of U.S. and allied weapons. She also disputed Russia’s claim that a significant number of missiles were shot down.

Speaking alongside White at a Pentagon news conference, Marine Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie said the U.S. is confident — but not 100 percent certain — that chemical agents were present at all three sites attacked. He said this likely included chlorine gas and sarin.

White described the strikes as successful. She said there are currently no indications that Syria is preparing to use chemical weapons again.HAVANA (AP) — The Latest on Raul Castro’s handover of Cuba’s presidency (all times local):

1:55 p.m.

Raul Castro’s retirement from the presidency of Cuba has its own theme song.

Cuban state media are enthusiastically promoting “The Last Mambi,” a tribute to Castro posted online by renowned trova singer Raul Torres.

Torres also wrote a tribute to Fidel Castro that was widely played in Cuba after the revolutionary leader’s death in November 2016.

Addressing Raul Castro, the new song says, “Now you can be happy/confident that you won’t be the last mambi/confident that there will be millions of arms/with their machetes at the ready.”

The mambis were machete-toting Cuban rebels against Spanish rule in the 19th century who become icons of Cuban nationalism for future governments, including the current communist administration.

___

1:25 p.m.

One of the fiercest congressional critics of Cuba’s government says the island’s new president is a “thug” who is just the “same as the old boss.”

Florida Republican Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen says Congress sees Thursday’s transition as “business as usual” and doesn’t expect diplomatic relations to improve under new President Miguel Diaz-Canel.

Raul Castro stepped down as president Thursday, ending 60 years of Castros holding the island’s top government position. But he remains head of the Communist Party, the country’s ultimate authority.

The Cuban-born lawmaker told The Associated Press Thursday that as long as Raul Castro remains, “There are really no changes.”

She said “It’s the whole system that is corrupt. It’s the communist, authoritarian, totalitarian regime.”

___

11 a.m.

Raul Castro says he sees new Cuban President Miguel Diaz-Canel as his eventual successor as head of the island’s powerful Communist Party.

Castro is making his first speech since handing the presidency over to Diaz-Canel, and used the opportunity to give his vision of the future.

He told members of the National Assembly Thursday that he expects Diaz-Canel to serve two five-year terms and can become head of the party once Castro leaves that position in 2021.

Castro praised Diaz-Canel’s leadership as a Communist Party official dating back to the “special period” of the 1990s when Cuba faced a deep economic crisis following the loss of subsidies because of the collapse of the Soviet Union.

Raul Castro served as president for two terms since 2008.

___

10:10 a.m.

President Mario Diaz-Canel has made his first speech as Cuba’s new head of state with a pledge to continue the socialist revolution led by his predecessors Fidel and Raul Castro.

Diaz-Canel says in the nationally televised speech before the National Assembly that his first thoughts upon taking office are for the “historic generation” that has led the country since the triumph of the Cuban Revolution in 1959.

The 57-year-old president says the country’s leadership cannot forget “for a second” its commitment to the people of Cuba.

Raul Castro sat in the front row of the assembly, gently rocking back and forth in his chair and occasionally seeming to nod in approval.

___

9 a.m.

Raul Castro has passed Cuba’s presidency to Miguel Diaz-Canel, putting the island’s government in the hands of someone outside the Castro family for the first time in nearly six decades. He remains head of the powerful Communist Party that oversees political and social activities.The Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) has referred fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia for criminal prosecution, multiple reports indicated Thursday.

Inspector General Michael Horowitz’s investigation of McCabe’s involvement in leaks to the media concluded last month. The final report indicated three instances in which McCabe lied to investigators, prompting Attorney General Jeff Sessions to fire McCabe even before the report was released.

On Thursday, multiple outlets reported that Horowitz’s office also made a criminal referral based on McCabe’s conduct outlined in the report to the office of U.S. attorney Jessie Liu, the top federal prosecutor in the nation’s capital. In contrast to the headline-grabbing criminal referrals made by members of Congress, this type of referral is part of the DOJ’s standard operating procedure and stands a much better chance of resulting in actual criminal charges against McCabe.

It is unclear exactly when the referral was made, exactly which charges were recommended, or how it was received by Liu and her office.

After his firing, McCabe, making frequent appeals to President Trump’s opponents, managed to raise more than $400,000 for his legal defense fund, perhaps in anticipation of criminal prosecution.

The prospect of criminal prosecution for McCabe’s alleged “lack of candor” raises the prospect of a further showdown over the credibility of McCabe’s former boss, fired FBI Director James Comey. The OIG reports that conclusions against McCabe rest largely on the two men’s designations of each other as liars based on how they relayed their discussions of the leak.

McCabe attorney, Michael Bromwich, has made it clear his defense will be based on calling into question the accuracy of Comey’s account. If McCabe is tried, Comey would likely be a material witness to his alleged crimes, creating the possibility the men’s dispute will have to play out in a court of law."3 weeks ago I said (Cohen) would flip I was the first one to call it.. Now people close to the president are telling him the same ... I'm going to make a prediction now: I do not think the President will serve out his term" - @MichaelAvenatti tells @NicolleDWallace pic.twitter.com/Mw3Pdlhudt

On Thursday’s broadcast of MSNBC’s “Deadline: White House,” Stormy Daniels’ attorney, Michael Avenatti, predicted that President Trump will not serve out his term.

Avenatti said, “There’s no question that Michael Cohen knows where many, many bodies are buried. They are going to turn him. And when they turn him, the president is going to be in a very, very bad place. And I’m going to make a prediction now, I do not think the president will serve out his term. I just don’t.”

Avenatti also stated, “I think three weeks ago I said that ultimately, he [Cohen] was going to be indicted and he was going to flip on the president. I was the first one to call it. And now, you know, people that are close to the president are telling him the same thing.”

(h/t Mediaite)

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettFormer New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced his decision to join President Donald Trump’s legal team as the Russia investigation by Special Counsel Robert Mueller continues.

“I’m doing it because I hope we can negotiate an end to this for the good of the country and because I have high regard for the president and for Bob Mueller,” Giuliani said in an interview with the Washington Post.

Counsel to the President Jay Sekulow confirmed the news in a statement to reporters.

“I have had the privilege of working with Mayor Giuliani for many years, and we welcome his expertise,” he said.

The former New York City mayor, who was a key Trump supporter during the 2016 election, will leave his law firm Greenberg Traurig to join the president’s legal team.

“Rudy is great,” Trump said in the statement. “He has been my friend for a long time and wants to get this matter quickly resolved for the good of the country.”

Giuliani was a rumored candidate to serve as Trump’s attorney general, but the job went to Sen. Jeff Sessions instead, who recused himself from the ongoing Russia investigation.

Giuliani had a long legal career before he was elected mayor of New York City in 1997. After an unsuccessful run for Senate and failing to win the Republican nomination for president in 2008, he returned to the private sector.

Sekulow announced that Jane Serene Raskin and Marty Raskin had also joined Trump’s legal team, citing their “reputation for excellence and integrity.”Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told President Trump last week he is not a target of any part of the special counsel probe or the investigation into his lawyer Michael Cohen, according to Bloomberg.

Rosenstein, who started and is overseeing the special counsel probe led by Robert Mueller, offered the assurance during a meeting with Trump last Thursday as the president was contemplating firing him, according to the report.

News of the FBI raiding Cohen’s home, office, and hotel room heightened speculation that Trump would fire Rosenstein or Mueller, and Democrats readied a rapid response team in advance.

Rosenstein had approved Mueller’s referral to the U.S. attorney’s office in the Southern District of New York for a criminal investigation of Cohen.

At the same time, House Republicans were threatening Rosenstein with contempt of Congress and potential impeachment for withholding Justice Department and FBI documents that were requested in August.

The revelation that Trump is not a target of either investigation appears to have headed off any firings for the near future.

However, Rosenstein’s assurances may have been merely semantic. Earlier this month, Mueller told Trump’s attorneys that he was not a “target” of the Russia collusion probe, but said he remained a “subject” of investigation and could become a target at any time.

On Thursday, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani joined the president’s legal team dealing with the Russia probe, telling the Washington Post that he would negotiate an end to it.

“I’m doing it because I hope we can negotiate an end to this for the good of the country and because I have high regard for the president and for Bob Mueller,” he said.Gun control advocate David Hogg and his sister, Lauren, have inked a book deal with Random House with a release date of June 5.

The book will center on the gun control movement birthed by the Parkland attack.

Entertainment Weekly reports that David and Lauren “have been leaders in the gun control movement that took shape among students, in the aftermath of the Parkland shooting.” The siblings’ book “will explore their efforts taking on some of the most powerful forces in Washington and beyond, and will detail their commitment to new legislation aiming to prevent future tragedies.”

David released a statement regarding the book deal, saying, “In times of struggle and tragedy, we can come together in love and compassion for each other. We can see each other not as political symbols, but as human beings. And then, of course, there will be times when we simply must fight for what is right.”

Lauren said, “It’s amazing to see that so much love can come from so much loss. But from our loss, our generation will create positive change.”

David recently urged advertisers to boycott Fox News’ Laura Ingraham, securing an initial loss of some advertisers but eventually turning a 20 percent increase in her viewership. He is now urging a boycott of some of the biggest, most profitable mutual fund companies because those companies’ funds have stock in gun manufacturers.

Breitbart News reported that David specifically targeted Blackrock and Vanguard Group. He is trying to get the hashtags #BoycottBlackrock and #BoycottVanguard to trend.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Alon Altman, a senior software engineer at Google, pressured the company to sabotage President Trump’s Android phone, according to new evidence released via James Damore’s class-action lawsuit against the company.

Calling on the tech giant to use the “full economic force [of] Google for good”, Altman also suggested deleting the gmail accounts of Trump, his administration, and his aides for “abuse.”

Altman – who is still employed by the tech giant – also called on Google to blacklist “alt-right’ sites on the Google ad network (she falsely included Breitbart News in this category — an assertion refuted by a Harvard and M.I.T. study), and take down all “alt right videos” from YouTube. She also called on the tech giant to remove “neo-Nazi sites such as ‘The Daily Stormer'” from the Google search index.

Altman has been employed at Google for seven years, and according to inside sources, is one of the most radical leftists at the company. She was named as one of the key architects of political discrimination at Google by a whistleblower we interviewed last August. As we have reported, she has previously called on the company to discipline or terminate any employee who agreed with James Damore’s viewpoint diversity manifesto, which argued that there was an atmosphere of political intolerance at Google.

Google seemed to follow at least one of Altman’s suggestions, effectively kicking The Daily Stormer off the internet in August 2017, a move that was condemned even by the left-leaning Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF).

While Google did not follow Altman’s suggestion to remove Breitbart News from its ad network, its employees have begun advising clients to steer clear of Breitbart News, as we exclusively reported in February.

More evidence that Google’s ad departments are trying to undermine the revenue of conservative sites has just been released via the Damore lawsuit.

According to the lawsuit, when Google’s “Large Customer Sales” (LCS) team learned that the Canadian conservative news site The Rebel Media had been targeted by the far-left group Sleeping Giants, they used this as an excuse to advise clients to remove ad placements from conservative websites.

In a template email to Google clients, Marshall Self, Director of Agency at Google, recommended that clients take advantage of Google’s “wide number of controls, including placement exclusions and filters for political content” to remove ads from specific sites, apps, YouTube channels and videos.

This is the latest information that has been released as part of the Damore lawsuit. Yesterday, we reported that Google cautions many of its managers against rewarding behavior that caters the values of “white-male dominant culture,” including “meritocracy,” “individual achievement” and “avoiding conflict.”

Three new plaintiffs have joined Damore’s lawsuit against Google, which alleges that the company discriminates against white, Asian, male, and conservative individuals.

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.Thursday on CNN’s “Wolf,” Harvard Law professor Alan Dershowitz said President Donald Trump should “assume your best friends will flip” to cooperate with investigators once they are charged with crimes.

When asked about Michael Cohen, Dershowitz said, “I have told every client I have represented over the last 53 years—assume your best friends will flip. Prosecution has an enormous leverage. They can charge you with a dozen crimes, even if they’re relatively technical crimes, that accumulate with the guidelines and tell you you’ll never see the outside again, you’ll serve your life in prison. That kind of pressure brings forth not only singing but composing. Witnesses realize the better the story, the better the deal they get, so the risk is they will exaggerate or elaborate or even sometimes make up stories. I think the president has to assume that his closest friends, his greatest associates, the people he trusts the most, if exposed to the risk of life imprisonment will flip. That has to be his working assumption.”

When asked why Trump should worry if he has don’t nothing wrong, Dershowitz added, “It is certainly possible for people who have done nothing wrong to be caught up. You can be prosecuted for perjury for telling the truth, if somebody tells a different truth.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENRepublican lawmakers on Wednesday sent a slew of criminal referrals to Attorney General Jeff Sessions for a number of Obama administration officials and senior FBI employees for violations of the law in connection to the Clinton email and Trump-Russia investigations.

Specifically, they sent criminal referrals to Sessions for: former FBI Director James Comey, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, former Attorney General Loretta Lynch, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, as well as FBI Special Agent Peter Strzok and his lover, FBI lawyer Lisa Page, for separate violations.

The criminal referrals, first reported by investigative journalist Sara Carter, were made by Rep. Ron Desantis (R-FL), a senior member of the House Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform Committees who is leaving the House to run for Florida governor, and ten other colleagues.

Signatories included: GOP Reps. Andy Biggs (AZ), Dave Brat (VA), Jeff Duncan (SC), Matt Gaetz (FL), Paul A. Gosar (AZ), Andy Harris (MD), Jody Hice (GA), Todd Rokita (IN), Claudia Tenney (NY), and Ted Yoho (FL).

“Because we believe that those in positions of high authority should be treated the same as every other American, we want to be sure that the potential violations of law outlined below are vetted appropriately,” said the letter.

They said Comey potentially broke the law when he chose not to seek charges against Clinton, for leaking classified memos of his conversations to President Trump to his friend Daniel Richman to give to the press, and for lying to lawmakers.

They said Clinton potentially broke the law when disguising payments to Fusion GPS, the firm that produced the Trump dossier, despite mandatory disclosures to the Federal Election Commission.

Lynch, they said, potentially broke the law when she threatened a former FBI informant, William Douglas Campbell, who had tried to come forward in 2016 with information related to the Uranium One deal that was approved in 2010.

McCabe potentially broke the law when he lied to investigators four times when questioned about a leak that he had arranged, they said.

Strzok and Page potentially violated the law by interfering in the investigation of Clinton’s private email server, they said. The letter cites a Wall Street Journal report that said their text messages to one another revealed FBI officials tried to eliminate evidence that Clinton had compromised high-level communications with then-President Obama.

“The report provides the following alarming specifics, among others: ‘Mr. Strzok texts Ms. Page to tell her that, in fact, senior officials had decided to water down the reference to President Obama to ‘another senior government official,” the criminal referral said.

Finally, the lawmakers referred all Justice Department and FBI personnel, including Comey, McCabe, former Acting Attorney General Sally Yates, and former Acting Deputy Attorney General Dana Boente, for potentially breaking the law by using unverified and/or false information to obtain a surveillance warrant on former Trump campaign volunteer Carter Page.

Carter also reported that other recent documents obtained by congressional investigators suggest possible coordination by the Obama White House, the CIA, and the FBI in investigating the Trump campaign.

“According to those documents, the senior Obama officials used unsubstantiated evidence to launch allegations in the media that the Trump campaign was colluding with Russia during the run-up to the 2016 presidential election,” Carter reported.

CIA Director John Brennan had briefed Sen. Harry Reid (D-NV) in August 2016, prompting Reid to send a letter to then-FBI Director James Comey asking him to investigate allegations of collusion. Reid then reportedly stayed in close touch with Comey.

472EBC7D8F55C0F9E830D37CF96376A2.Final Criminal Referral by Kristina Wong on Scribd

This story has been updated.A poll by the Public Religion Research Institute shows that support for President Trump among white evangelicals has hit a record high of 75 percent. Only 22 percent view the president unfavorably.

The Hill reports that the “president’s favorability with white evangelicals in the poll has steadily risen over time, with his previous high being at 74 percent in February 2017.”

At one point this year, though, that number sat at just 68 percent.

In this same poll, among the general public, Trump’s job approval number sits at 42 percent, a five point jump since January.

One key take away from this poll is the establishment media’s total failure to separate Trump from the evangelical vote. This goal is why the media is willing to make such hypocritical fools of themselves while obsessing over Trump’s sex life.

The very same media that ignored, downplayed, and defended Bill Clinton and John Edwards from sex scandals that occurred in the White House and on the campaign trail, are more than willing to look ridiculous frenzying over the possibility that Trump might have boinked some hotties in consensual relationships more than a dozen years ago.

The whole point of this coverage is to undermine Trump’s support with his core in the evangelical community, which only proves how provincial and out-of-touch the media are in believing such a thing would work.

What’s more, when you see the jump in support from 68 percent to 75 percent during the very same period the media decided to go 24/7 with Trump’s sex life, it is safe to say that this tactic has not only failed, it has backfired.

Of course, the media are not alone. There are a countless number of stupes in the NeverTrump movement, like Jonah Goldberg, who are just as obsessed and ignorant.

To begin with, as Tucker Carlson so memorably put it, after eight years of Christians having their religious freedoms under assault during the Obama-era, we are looking for a bodyguard, not a saint. And let us not forget that many of the saints were not saints, but rather complicated, fallen, and difficult people who fell short in all kinds of ways.

Moreover, a present-day scandal (Edwards, Clinton) compared to something that might have happened over a decade ago, is just not a concern to the Faithful (I’m Catholic), especially when the fascist state wants us to pay for abortions and force Christian cake and floral artists to participate in the sacramentalization of sin that is a same sex wedding.

But because their bigoted and narrow minds stereotype evangelicals, the media and NeverTrump have confused the Faithful with the Pharisees — those judgmental finger-pointers who damn the imperfect. These bigots have forgotten that Christians are instead taught to refrain from judgment and to focus on our own sins.

The truth is that it is the media and NeverTrump who are behaving like the Pharisees, using sin as a political weapon to further their own mercenary goals. There is no principle behind their self-righteous moralizing, just ego and bitterness, a craven desire to emotionally blackmail and manipulate people.

Jesus had the choice of siding with the sinners or the hypocritical Pharisees. He chose the sinners, knowing there was at least some hope for their salvation while the strident, sanctimonious Pharisees were hopeless.

There is an important lesson in that.

As long as Trump keeps protecting our rights and the pious scolds keep standing atop the logs in their eyes to hector us into condemning others, this is a shockingly easy choice.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R, KY) has torpedoed President Donald Trump’s plan to cut $60 billion in federal spending, despite a promise to open a “discussion” on the cuts.

Even after supporting and passing a $1.3 trillion increase in spending, McConnell said he would talk about a rescissions package that had the support of the president. However, McConnell has ultimately refused to support the plan, Conservative Review noted.

McConnell appeared on Fox News with host Neil Cavuto on April 17 and as the interview ended, the Sen. insisted that he could not make such an agreement to rescind any of the massive spending he supported during the budgeting process.

Cavuto noted that President Trump expressed shock that his cuts in spending were not added to the bill and said he would never sign such a bill again. The Fox host then asked if McConnell would try to rescind any of that spending.

But the majority leader said that he already brokered an agreement with the Democrats and that train has left the station. “You can’t make an agreement one month and say, ‘OK, we really didn’t mean it,'” McConnell said of a move to cut spending.

McConnell also took pains to remind Cavuto that Trump supported his spending bill and signed it into law. “He and his people were involved in the negotiations, they agreed to it, and he signed the bill.”

“We had an agreement with the Democrats,” the Kentuckian added.

The majority leader and his supporters maintained that the spending bill was a must pass because it contained the much-needed budget for the military. But as CR’s Chris Pandolfo noted, that excuse does not factor into any move to rescind some of the budgeted spending because the military budget is now already set in motion.

Perhaps the main reason why a bill to realize Trump’s spending cuts will not advance in the U.S. Senate is because Mitch McConnell does not want to support spending cuts, Pandolfo said.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told President Trump last week he is not a target of any part of the special counsel probe or the investigation into his lawyer Michael Cohen, according to Bloomberg.

Rosenstein, who started and is overseeing the special counsel probe led by Robert Mueller, offered the assurance during a meeting with Trump last Thursday as the president was contemplating firing him, according to the report.

News of the FBI raiding Cohen’s home, office, and hotel room heightened speculation that Trump would fire Rosenstein or Mueller, and Democrats readied a rapid response team in advance.

Rosenstein had approved Mueller’s referral to the U.S. attorney’s office in the Southern District of New York for a criminal investigation of Cohen.

At the same time, House Republicans were threatening Rosenstein with contempt of Congress and potential impeachment for withholding Justice Department and FBI documents that were requested in August.

The revelation that Trump is not a target of either investigation appears to have headed off any firings for the near future.

However, Rosenstein’s assurances may have been merely semantic. Earlier this month, Mueller told Trump’s attorneys that he was not a “target” of the Russia collusion probe, but said he remained a “subject” of investigation and could become a target at any time.

On Thursday, former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani joined the president’s legal team dealing with the Russia probe, telling the Washington Post that he would negotiate an end to it.

“I’m doing it because I hope we can negotiate an end to this for the good of the country and because I have high regard for the president and for Bob Mueller,” he said.U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson has questioned the scope of the authority granted Special Counsel Robert Mueller by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

During a hearing in one of the criminal cases against former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, Judge Jackson cast doubt upon the directive appointing Mueller and its broad-brush approach to the investigation. Mueller’s directive allows him to probe the alleged connections between Russia and the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, as well as issues that “may arise” in the course of that investigation.

But Justice Department regulations mandate that a directive must describe a “specific factual matter” to the special counsel. “That’s a fair point,” Jackson said when the point was raised by Manafort’s lead defense attorney, Kevin Downing. “I don’t think that, as good as he is, that the deputy attorney general can see into the future.”

It does not, however, seem likely that even questioning the breadth of Mueller’s authority will do anything to save Manafort from his reckoning. He faces 23 counts across two indictments in both Washington and Virgina, including failure to register as an agent of Ukraine, money laundering, bank fraud, tax evasion, and failing to report foreign bank accounts.

But Manafort’s lawyers continue to push the issue, trying to invalidate the investigation if they cannot answer the charges themselves. They contend that Mueller has gone even further than was authorized by Rosenstein, and that even his authorization was against Justice Department rules.

“I don’t know how they can violate these regulations and we can still be here and it doesn’t matter,” Downing said. “It doesn’t make any sense.”

Senior Justice Department attorney Michael Dreeben disagrees. Of the order, he said, “It’s not a blank check. It’s not carte blanche,” and it “reflects confirmation of what was within our scope at the time of our appointment.”

For her part, Jackson has issued no official judgment regarding the issue of Mueller’s authority. She also did not seem convinced that the issue had resulted in any undue harm to Manafort himself. She believes it likely that a closer look at Manafort’s allegedly dubious business dealings was a part of the larger investigation by the time Mueller was appointed. Further, that Manafort’s ties to Ukraine qualified under “links” between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson has questioned the scope of the authority granted Special Counsel Robert Mueller by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

During a hearing in one of the criminal cases against former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, Judge Jackson cast doubt upon the directive appointing Mueller and its broad-brush approach to the investigation. Mueller’s directive allows him to probe the alleged connections between Russia and the 2016 Trump presidential campaign, as well as issues that “may arise” in the course of that investigation.

But Justice Department regulations mandate that a directive must describe a “specific factual matter” to the special counsel. “That’s a fair point,” Jackson said when the point was raised by Manafort’s lead defense attorney, Kevin Downing. “I don’t think that, as good as he is, that the deputy attorney general can see into the future.”

It does not, however, seem likely that even questioning the breadth of Mueller’s authority will do anything to save Manafort from his reckoning. He faces 23 counts across two indictments in both Washington and Virgina, including failure to register as an agent of Ukraine, money laundering, bank fraud, tax evasion, and failing to report foreign bank accounts.

But Manafort’s lawyers continue to push the issue, trying to invalidate the investigation if they cannot answer the charges themselves. They contend that Mueller has gone even further than was authorized by Rosenstein, and that even his authorization was against Justice Department rules.

“I don’t know how they can violate these regulations and we can still be here and it doesn’t matter,” Downing said. “It doesn’t make any sense.”

Senior Justice Department attorney Michael Dreeben disagrees. Of the order, he said, “It’s not a blank check. It’s not carte blanche,” and it “reflects confirmation of what was within our scope at the time of our appointment.”

For her part, Jackson has issued no official judgment regarding the issue of Mueller’s authority. She also did not seem convinced that the issue had resulted in any undue harm to Manafort himself. She believes it likely that a closer look at Manafort’s allegedly dubious business dealings was a part of the larger investigation by the time Mueller was appointed. Further, that Manafort’s ties to Ukraine qualified under “links” between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.The Democratic Party is looking to include reparations in their 2022 platform, along with Medicare for all United States residents, and free higher education that is fully paid for by American taxpayers.

In an exclusive report by the Washington Free Beacon, Democrats and liberal donors are pushing for an even further left agenda by 2022. That agenda was revealed during the Democracy Alliance’s latest conference called “Way to Win: 2022 Victory Party,” which featured guests such as the Democratic National Committee’s (DNC) Chairman Tom Perez, former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, and Democratic Georgia candidate for governor, Stacey Abrams.

The Free Beacon noted that the invitation for the gathering read:

It’s 2022 and we are celebrating policy victories across the nation: Medicare for All and Free College, and next on the agenda is Reparations. Because we’re governing with gusto, we’re seeing victories up and down the ballot—including winning a governorship in Texas and putting 38 electoral votes in grasp by 2024. Stop in 2020 and 2019 when local power builders turned Arizona and Florida solidly blue and established Virginia as a progressive governance juggernaut.

The event was co-hosted by not only a slew of liberal organizations, like the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, but also the Center for Popular Democracy, an open borders lobbying organization funded by globalist left-wing billionaire George Soros.

As Breitbart News reported, the Soros-funded Center for Popular Democracy has been one of the leading voices in the U.S. for promoting illegal immigration within leftist political circles.The Democratic Party is looking to include reparations in their 2022 platform, along with Medicare for all United States residents, and free higher education that is fully paid for by American taxpayers.

In an exclusive report by the Washington Free Beacon, Democrats and liberal donors are pushing for an even further left agenda by 2022. That agenda was revealed during the Democracy Alliance’s latest conference called “Way to Win: 2022 Victory Party,” which featured guests such as the Democratic National Committee’s (DNC) Chairman Tom Perez, former Virginia Gov. Terry McAuliffe, and Democratic Georgia candidate for governor, Stacey Abrams.

The Free Beacon noted that the invitation for the gathering read:

It’s 2022 and we are celebrating policy victories across the nation: Medicare for All and Free College, and next on the agenda is Reparations. Because we’re governing with gusto, we’re seeing victories up and down the ballot—including winning a governorship in Texas and putting 38 electoral votes in grasp by 2024. Stop in 2020 and 2019 when local power builders turned Arizona and Florida solidly blue and established Virginia as a progressive governance juggernaut.

The event was co-hosted by not only a slew of liberal organizations, like the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, but also the Center for Popular Democracy, an open borders lobbying organization funded by globalist left-wing billionaire George Soros.

As Breitbart News reported, the Soros-funded Center for Popular Democracy has been one of the leading voices in the U.S. for promoting illegal immigration within leftist political circles.The sun shines brightly over the desert valley, as a crosswind whips across State Route 86, picking up the faint scent of the Salton Sea.

“That’s our lake,” says Kimberlin Brown Pelzer, the Hollywood star now running for Congress as a Republican in California’s 36th congressional district. She recalls the Salton Sea as an oasis, a vacation spot that welcomed celebrities and families alike in its heyday. Now, however, the water is receding, and the last of the tilapia are expected to disappear.

In the same way, California was once a haven for Republicans. Yet the party seems to be collapsing here.

Explanations vary. Some blame the 1986 Simpson-Mazzoli amnesty, which shifted the demographic makeup of the California electorate. Others blame the Republican response to illegal immigration, through such measures as Proposition 187 in 1994, which alienated Latino voters from the GOP. Certainly the failures of the last Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, did not help.

Over the past decade, the traditional base of the Republican party — homeowners and small business owners — has been migrating to states with lower taxes and fewer regulations. Meanwhile, California continues to attract immigrants — both legal and illegal — as well as a disproportionate share of the state’s welfare recipients.

The state also still attracts talented people to Silicon Valley and to Hollywood. But those wealthy enclaves are political monocultures, almost entirely left.

Yet there is hope for the Republican Party in the 36th district, which takes up most of Riverside County west of Interstate 215, running all the way east to the Arizona border.

The Cook Partisan Voting Index rates the 36th as a D+2, meaning it is essentially a swing district. And the Democratic incumbent, Raul Ruiz, has failed to distinguish himself in three terms. He is essentially a stand-in for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), who hopes to regain the Speaker’s gavel next year.

In addition, Ruiz has adopted far-left positions on a variety of issues, especially foreign policy. He is a strong supporter of the Iran nuclear deal, and has been endorsed by J Street, a radical far-left organization that many consider anti-Israel.

In addition, Ruiz has received a 100% rating from Planned Parenthood. When two of his campaign donors were revealed to be the targets of a criminal investigation in 2017, Ruiz did not return their money: he gave it to Planned Parenthood instead.

As a result, Pelzer says, the voters of the district — especially the Republican ones — feel that they do not have a voice in Washington.

“They don’t feel represented,” she argues. “Ruiz only says and does what Pelosi tells him to do.” She notes that Ruiz — like every other Democrat in Congress — voted against President Donald Trump’s new tax cuts. Those tax cuts, she says, have already translated into new jobs in the 36th district. Yet, she says, Pelosi and Ruiz want to raise taxes again.

It takes a certain amount of courage — or chutzpah — to mount a Republican campaign in a year when Democrats believe they are about to ride a “blue wave” back to power in the House. Democrats just need to flip 23 seats to regain the majority. And they are targeting California in particular, because there are several seats currently held by Republicans in districts that Hillary Clinton won in 2016. The surge of liberal activism in the state has convinced several Republicans to retire already.

But Pelzer is on a mission. A Trump supporter from the start, she spoke at the Republican National Convention in 2016. As such, she is believed to enjoy particular clout that could come in handy when taking up the district’s issues.

Local farmers, for example — specializing in dates, grapes, and peppers, among other irrigated crops — want President Trump to make good on his promise to broker bilateral trade deals that could help them reach markets abroad. Pelzer believes she can deliver.

The number one issue in the district, Pelzer says, is immigration. And she supports Trump’s policies, believing there is room for a compromise that addresses the need for farm labor.

“We need some kind of program that is mutually beneficial to our country and to our farmers — and that isn’t grossly abused,” she says. She also rejects the idea that Americans won’t do farm work as “incredibly offensive and racist.” She notes that she grew up helping out on a family farm in Northern California.

A career in modeling took Pelzer to Hollywood, where she found herself winning one acting role after another, eventually landing a recurring role as Sheila Carter — “one of the all-time great soap supervillains” — on The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful. The latter has a large international audience, and is the number one most-watched soap opera in the world. Pelzer also trained as an interior designer, and runs a variety of businesses from her home base in Palm Springs.

Her business acumen has led her to adopt a careful approach to her campaign. Though she had raised $262,607 by the March reporting deadline, almost 20 times as much as the closest of her four Republican primary rivals, she had only spent about $90,000, leaving her with substantial cash-on-hand.

She has hired consultants, but is acting as her own campaign manager until the general election. Likewise, she says, she will focus on mailings in the primary, and leave pricey TV ads for the fall.

Pelzer has only done limited polling, but the early numbers, she says, suggest that the district’s voters prefer a Republican on the generic ballot. President Trump has an approval rating of 46% in the district — not staggering, but far ahead of the rest of the state.

Those numbers give Pelzer a shot, and Washington has begun calling. GOP leaders like her poise and drive. They also like her chances.

In 2018, the fate of the House, and the country, could depend on Kimberlin Brown Pelzer in the 36th.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.The sun shines brightly over the desert valley, as a crosswind whips across State Route 86, picking up the faint scent of the Salton Sea.

“That’s our lake,” says Kimberlin Brown Pelzer, the Hollywood star now running for Congress as a Republican in California’s 36th congressional district. She recalls the Salton Sea as an oasis, a vacation spot that welcomed celebrities and families alike in its heyday. Now, however, the water is receding, and the last of the tilapia are expected to disappear.

In the same way, California was once a haven for Republicans. Yet the party seems to be collapsing here.

Explanations vary. Some blame the 1986 Simpson-Mazzoli amnesty, which shifted the demographic makeup of the California electorate. Others blame the Republican response to illegal immigration, through such measures as Proposition 187 in 1994, which alienated Latino voters from the GOP. Certainly the failures of the last Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, did not help.

Over the past decade, the traditional base of the Republican party — homeowners and small business owners — has been migrating to states with lower taxes and fewer regulations. Meanwhile, California continues to attract immigrants — both legal and illegal — as well as a disproportionate share of the state’s welfare recipients.

The state also still attracts talented people to Silicon Valley and to Hollywood. But those wealthy enclaves are political monocultures, almost entirely left.

Yet there is hope for the Republican Party in the 36th district, which takes up most of Riverside County west of Interstate 215, running all the way east to the Arizona border.

The Cook Partisan Voting Index rates the 36th as a D+2, meaning it is essentially a swing district. And the Democratic incumbent, Raul Ruiz, has failed to distinguish himself in three terms. He is essentially a stand-in for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), who hopes to regain the Speaker’s gavel next year.

In addition, Ruiz has adopted far-left positions on a variety of issues, especially foreign policy. He is a strong supporter of the Iran nuclear deal, and has been endorsed by J Street, a radical far-left organization that many consider anti-Israel.

In addition, Ruiz has received a 100% rating from Planned Parenthood. When two of his campaign donors were revealed to be the targets of a criminal investigation in 2017, Ruiz did not return their money: he gave it to Planned Parenthood instead.

As a result, Pelzer says, the voters of the district — especially the Republican ones — feel that they do not have a voice in Washington.

“They don’t feel represented,” she argues. “Ruiz only says and does what Pelosi tells him to do.” She notes that Ruiz — like every other Democrat in Congress — voted against President Donald Trump’s new tax cuts. Those tax cuts, she says, have already translated into new jobs in the 36th district. Yet, she says, Pelosi and Ruiz want to raise taxes again.

It takes a certain amount of courage — or chutzpah — to mount a Republican campaign in a year when Democrats believe they are about to ride a “blue wave” back to power in the House. Democrats just need to flip 23 seats to regain the majority. And they are targeting California in particular, because there are several seats currently held by Republicans in districts that Hillary Clinton won in 2016. The surge of liberal activism in the state has convinced several Republicans to retire already.

But Pelzer is on a mission. A Trump supporter from the start, she spoke at the Republican National Convention in 2016. As such, she is believed to enjoy particular clout that could come in handy when taking up the district’s issues.

Local farmers, for example — specializing in dates, grapes, and peppers, among other irrigated crops — want President Trump to make good on his promise to broker bilateral trade deals that could help them reach markets abroad. Pelzer believes she can deliver.

The number one issue in the district, Pelzer says, is immigration. And she supports Trump’s policies, believing there is room for a compromise that addresses the need for farm labor.

“We need some kind of program that is mutually beneficial to our country and to our farmers — and that isn’t grossly abused,” she says. She also rejects the idea that Americans won’t do farm work as “incredibly offensive and racist.” She notes that she grew up helping out on a family farm in Northern California.

A career in modeling took Pelzer to Hollywood, where she found herself winning one acting role after another, eventually landing a recurring role as Sheila Carter — “one of the all-time great soap supervillains” — on The Young and the Restless and The Bold and the Beautiful. The latter has a large international audience, and is the number one most-watched soap opera in the world. Pelzer also trained as an interior designer, and runs a variety of businesses from her home base in Palm Springs.

Her business acumen has led her to adopt a careful approach to her campaign. Though she had raised $262,607 by the March reporting deadline, almost 20 times as much as the closest of her four Republican primary rivals, she had only spent about $90,000, leaving her with substantial cash-on-hand.

She has hired consultants, but is acting as her own campaign manager until the general election. Likewise, she says, she will focus on mailings in the primary, and leave pricey TV ads for the fall.

Pelzer has only done limited polling, but the early numbers, she says, suggest that the district’s voters prefer a Republican on the generic ballot. President Trump has an approval rating of 46% in the district — not staggering, but far ahead of the rest of the state.

Those numbers give Pelzer a shot, and Washington has begun calling. GOP leaders like her poise and drive. They also like her chances.

In 2018, the fate of the House, and the country, could depend on Kimberlin Brown Pelzer in the 36th.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley’s high-profile spat with President Donald Trump’s newest adviser comes amid multiple instances of apparent contempt for the Trump agenda among her U.N. delegation.

In September, at his first address to the U.N. in New York City, President Trump used the word “sovereignty” 21 times as he laid out his unequivocally nationalist “America First” stance towards liberal internationalist institutions like the U.N.’s various bodies.

Yet, when one of those bodies, the annual session of the U.N. Commission on the Status of Women (CSW), met last month to discuss “empowering rural women and girls,” the United States’ representatives were less than intuitively supportive of this agenda.

Three sources, including two eyewitnesses, tell Breitbart News that a leading U.S. Mission career staffer, International Affairs Adviser Laurie Phipps, told a closed-door, off-the-record CSW session that the United States could “reluctantly” “live with” the inclusion of language supporting national sovereignty.

One source with extensive knowledge of CSW proceedings told Breitbart News that this type of language, specifying respect for national sovereignty, is routinely proposed by more socially conservative countries. These boilerplate “sovereignty clauses” do not typically wind up in CSW documents, but are an important bargaining chip pro-sovereignty countries use to prevent the inclusion of “progressive” CSW delegations’ and non-governmental organizations’ (NGOs) most radical proposals.

All three sources told Breitbart News they were shocked by Phipps’s description of the American delegation’s position toward sovereignty. The two that were in the room at the time emphasized that Phipps made it clear by her tone and demeanor that she was unhappy with the inclusion of the sovereignty reference.

Minutes later, according to two sources, Phipps spoke again, clarifying that the U.S. actually supported national sovereignty.

Phipps, who has served in the U.S. Mission since 2005, was described by one source familiar with the delegation as its most senior “women’s expert.” Phipps did not respond to Breitbart News’s request for comment.

Meanwhile, at least two “U.N. officials” who may or may not be part of the U.S. Mission to the U.N. broke the confidentiality of the same CSW sessions to undermine the pro-life, pro-family negotiating stance of several Trump political appointees in a BuzzFeed News story Wednesday.

“Everyone was like, ‘are you kidding me?’” one of these officials told BuzzFeed News about the moment Trump-nominated USAID official Bethany Kozma described the U.S. as a “pro-life nation.”

“She spoke of ‘trying to get women to make better choices in the future,’ which is that terrifying and outmoded idea that women make bad sexual choices and that what happens to them is their fault,” another CSW delegate, possibly from the U.S. mission, told Buzzfeed about Trump Health and Human Services official Valerie Huber’s support for sex education that promotes delaying or foregoing sexual activity.

According to BuzzFeed, this delegate added that “during this moment of the #MeToo movement, it seemed ‘particularly regressive.’”

The U.S. Mission to the U.N.’s politically appointed leadership, with Ambassador Haley at its head, assigns career staff and sets their agendas. In the case of CSW, these decisions were the purview of Haley’s top subordinate, Ambassador Kelley Currie. Currie, a former staffer for moderate Rep. John Porter (R-IL), was nominated from her position with an Asia-focused NGO.

Another deputy ambassador is Haley’s close ally from her days as Governor of South Carolina, NeverTrump leader Jon Lerner. Lerner made headlines this week when President Trump himself reportedly intervened to stop his appointment as a foreign policy adviser to Vice President Mike Pence.

Undampened by these controversies, however, Haley is enjoying one of Washington’s best weeks of press in recent memory after her curt exchange with National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow. Perhaps, Kudlow suggested, Haley suffered “momentary confusion” when she announced new sanctions against Russia in response to alleged chemical attacks by their ally, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

No sanctions were actually authorized by the President, and the White House spent Sunday correcting Haley’s premature announcement. Instead of apologizing or merely accepting Kudlow’s face-saving explanation for the mishap, Haley shot back at Kudlow and, by extension, the White House on Fox News, telling Dana Perino, “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

The laconic quip instantly made her the woman of the moment in Washington. The left-leaning press lionized Haley Wednesday, lavishing praise on her retort. CNN’s Brooke Baldwin spoke over a chyron exclaiming, “Nikki Haley Absolutely Owns New White House Advisor in Just 8 Words.”

Who is writing these chyrons? An Upworthy editor circa 2013? pic.twitter.com/upLrBs6Kb3 — Josh Barro (@jbarro) April 18, 2018

Baldwin herself told her viewers about how Haley “owns” Kudlow – adopting the slang of the gamer/internet culture she is famous for misunderstanding and condescending to.

Politico’s Elena Johnson and Burgess Everett, meanwhile, characterized Haley’s quip as a “red line.” “In the span of 24 hours, U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley has done what none of her colleagues in President Donald Trump’s Cabinet have before: successfully telegraphed to her boss that she will not quietly suffer his public humiliations,” they wrote Wednesday.

The New York Times even claimed, in the comment’s aftermath that, “Republicans close to the White House whisper about the prospect of an alliance between Ms. Haley and Vice President Mike Pence, possibly to run as a ticket in 2020.”

This fawning press was quickly eaten up, not only by the Left, but the tiny ranks of NeverTrump thought leaders as well:

Haley has never been a likely Trump ally and her role in the administration came as a surprise to many within the Trump campaign and transition team. During the 2016 presidential cycle, she endorsed Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) in an unsuccessful effort to prevent South Carolina, the state she then governed, from falling to Trump. Then she backed Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) to prevent Trump winning the GOP nomination, before finally – and very reluctantly – relenting and claiming she would vote for Trump.

As bestselling conservative author Ann Coulter reminded her Twitter followers Wednesday, however, Haley went much further than that:

U.N. ambassador compared @realDonaldTrump to racist psycho killer Dylann Roof. GREAT CHOICE, MR. PRESIDENT! https://t.co/mLjK5evo3f — Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) April 18, 2018

In 2015, Haley explicitly blamed Trump’s “rhetoric” for mass murderer Dylan Roof’s massacre in North Charleston. “That is not a part of our party, that is not who we want as president. We will not allow that in our country,” she said about Trump at the time.

At the time of her appointment, many speculated the pick was merely a means of elevating key Trump ally Henry McMaster to the governorship of South Carolina. A source familiar with the transition confirmed to Breitbart News this week that removing Haley from South Carolina politics was a motive in the decision to select her.U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley’s high-profile spat with President Donald Trump’s newest adviser comes amid multiple instances of apparent contempt for the Trump agenda among her U.N. delegation.

In September, at his first address to the U.N. in New York City, President Trump used the word “sovereignty” 21 times as he laid out his unequivocally nationalist “America First” stance towards liberal internationalist institutions like the U.N.’s various bodies.

Yet, when one of those bodies, the annual session of the U.N. Commission on the Status of Women (CSW), met last month to discuss “empowering rural women and girls,” the United States’ representatives were less than intuitively supportive of this agenda.

Three sources, including two eyewitnesses, tell Breitbart News that a leading U.S. Mission career staffer, International Affairs Adviser Laurie Phipps, told a closed-door, off-the-record CSW session that the United States could “reluctantly” “live with” the inclusion of language supporting national sovereignty.

One source with extensive knowledge of CSW proceedings told Breitbart News that this type of language, specifying respect for national sovereignty, is routinely proposed by more socially conservative countries. These boilerplate “sovereignty clauses” do not typically wind up in CSW documents, but are an important bargaining chip pro-sovereignty countries use to prevent the inclusion of “progressive” CSW delegations’ and non-governmental organizations’ (NGOs) most radical proposals.

All three sources told Breitbart News they were shocked by Phipps’s description of the American delegation’s position toward sovereignty. The two that were in the room at the time emphasized that Phipps made it clear by her tone and demeanor that she was unhappy with the inclusion of the sovereignty reference.

Minutes later, according to two sources, Phipps spoke again, clarifying that the U.S. actually supported national sovereignty.

Phipps, who has served in the U.S. Mission since 2005, was described by one source familiar with the delegation as its most senior “women’s expert.” Phipps did not respond to Breitbart News’s request for comment.

Meanwhile, at least two “U.N. officials” who may or may not be part of the U.S. Mission to the U.N. broke the confidentiality of the same CSW sessions to undermine the pro-life, pro-family negotiating stance of several Trump political appointees in a BuzzFeed News story Wednesday.

“Everyone was like, ‘are you kidding me?’” one of these officials told BuzzFeed News about the moment Trump-nominated USAID official Bethany Kozma described the U.S. as a “pro-life nation.”

“She spoke of ‘trying to get women to make better choices in the future,’ which is that terrifying and outmoded idea that women make bad sexual choices and that what happens to them is their fault,” another CSW delegate, possibly from the U.S. mission, told Buzzfeed about Trump Health and Human Services official Valerie Huber’s support for sex education that promotes delaying or foregoing sexual activity.

According to BuzzFeed, this delegate added that “during this moment of the #MeToo movement, it seemed ‘particularly regressive.’”

The U.S. Mission to the U.N.’s politically appointed leadership, with Ambassador Haley at its head, assigns career staff and sets their agendas. In the case of CSW, these decisions were the purview of Haley’s top subordinate, Ambassador Kelley Currie. Currie, a former staffer for moderate Rep. John Porter (R-IL), was nominated from her position with an Asia-focused NGO.

Another deputy ambassador is Haley’s close ally from her days as Governor of South Carolina, NeverTrump leader Jon Lerner. Lerner made headlines this week when President Trump himself reportedly intervened to stop his appointment as a foreign policy adviser to Vice President Mike Pence.

Undampened by these controversies, however, Haley is enjoying one of Washington’s best weeks of press in recent memory after her curt exchange with National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow. Perhaps, Kudlow suggested, Haley suffered “momentary confusion” when she announced new sanctions against Russia in response to alleged chemical attacks by their ally, Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

No sanctions were actually authorized by the President, and the White House spent Sunday correcting Haley’s premature announcement. Instead of apologizing or merely accepting Kudlow’s face-saving explanation for the mishap, Haley shot back at Kudlow and, by extension, the White House on Fox News, telling Dana Perino, “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

The laconic quip instantly made her the woman of the moment in Washington. The left-leaning press lionized Haley Wednesday, lavishing praise on her retort. CNN’s Brooke Baldwin spoke over a chyron exclaiming, “Nikki Haley Absolutely Owns New White House Advisor in Just 8 Words.”

Who is writing these chyrons? An Upworthy editor circa 2013? pic.twitter.com/upLrBs6Kb3 — Josh Barro (@jbarro) April 18, 2018

Baldwin herself told her viewers about how Haley “owns” Kudlow – adopting the slang of the gamer/internet culture she is famous for misunderstanding and condescending to.

Politico’s Elena Johnson and Burgess Everett, meanwhile, characterized Haley’s quip as a “red line.” “In the span of 24 hours, U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley has done what none of her colleagues in President Donald Trump’s Cabinet have before: successfully telegraphed to her boss that she will not quietly suffer his public humiliations,” they wrote Wednesday.

The New York Times even claimed, in the comment’s aftermath that, “Republicans close to the White House whisper about the prospect of an alliance between Ms. Haley and Vice President Mike Pence, possibly to run as a ticket in 2020.”

This fawning press was quickly eaten up, not only by the Left, but the tiny ranks of NeverTrump thought leaders as well:

Haley has never been a likely Trump ally and her role in the administration came as a surprise to many within the Trump campaign and transition team. During the 2016 presidential cycle, she endorsed Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) in an unsuccessful effort to prevent South Carolina, the state she then governed, from falling to Trump. Then she backed Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) to prevent Trump winning the GOP nomination, before finally – and very reluctantly – relenting and claiming she would vote for Trump.

As bestselling conservative author Ann Coulter reminded her Twitter followers Wednesday, however, Haley went much further than that:

U.N. ambassador compared @realDonaldTrump to racist psycho killer Dylann Roof. GREAT CHOICE, MR. PRESIDENT! https://t.co/mLjK5evo3f — Ann Coulter (@AnnCoulter) April 18, 2018

In 2015, Haley explicitly blamed Trump’s “rhetoric” for mass murderer Dylan Roof’s massacre in North Charleston. “That is not a part of our party, that is not who we want as president. We will not allow that in our country,” she said about Trump at the time.

At the time of her appointment, many speculated the pick was merely a means of elevating key Trump ally Henry McMaster to the governorship of South Carolina. A source familiar with the transition confirmed to Breitbart News this week that removing Haley from South Carolina politics was a motive in the decision to select her.North Dakota Democrat Sen. Heidi Heitkamp saved Mike Pompeo’s nomination for secretary of state on Thursday when she came out in favor of confirming him – bucking her own party.

“Pompeo demonstrated during this nomination process and during our meeting in March that he is committed to empowering the diplomats at the State Department so they can do their jobs in advancing American interests,” she said in a statement Thursday.

Her statement came as Pompeo’s confirmation hung in limbo, with Republicans needing at least one Democratic vote to get him confirmed.

Although there are 51 Republicans in the Senate, Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) has staunchly opposed Pompeo’s nomination, and Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) is recovering from brain cancer treatment, leaving the GOP tally at 49 — one short needed to confirm him.

President Trump had worked on the sidelines to get Pompeo confirmed, convincing Paul to meet with Pompeo on Thursday, and using Twitter to urge his confirmation.

He tweeted Thursday afternoon: “Mike Pompeo is outstanding. First in his class at West Point. A top student at Harvard Law School. A success at whatever he has done. We need the Senate to approve Mike ASAP. He will be a great Secretary of State!”

Mike Pompeo is outstanding. First in his class at West Point. A top student at Harvard Law School. A success at whatever he has done. We need the Senate to approve Mike ASAP. He will be a great Secretary of State! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2018

Heitkamp is facing a tough reelection fight in November, in a state that Trump won by double-digits. Her seat was listed by CNN as most likely to flip in 2018.

Other vulnerable Democratic senators include Sens. Joe Manchin (WV), Claire McCaskill (MO), and Jon Tester (MT). They have not yet indicated how they would vote on Pompeo’s nomination.

A vote for Pompeo could happen as early as next week.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee scheduled a committee vote for Pompeo for Monday at 5:00 p.m. Even if Paul, who sits on the committee, votes against Pompeo, his nomination would still advance to the Senate floor.

Other Democrats have been lining up against Pompeo. So far three senior Democrats have come in opposition — Sen. Jack Reed (RI), top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee; Sen. Ben Cardin (MD), top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; and Sen. Bob Menendez (NJ), senior member of former top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

Democrats Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (NH) and Sen. Cory Booker (NJ) have also come out against Pompeo.North Dakota Democrat Sen. Heidi Heitkamp saved Mike Pompeo’s nomination for secretary of state on Thursday when she came out in favor of confirming him – bucking her own party.

“Pompeo demonstrated during this nomination process and during our meeting in March that he is committed to empowering the diplomats at the State Department so they can do their jobs in advancing American interests,” she said in a statement Thursday.

Her statement came as Pompeo’s confirmation hung in limbo, with Republicans needing at least one Democratic vote to get him confirmed.

Although there are 51 Republicans in the Senate, Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) has staunchly opposed Pompeo’s nomination, and Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) is recovering from brain cancer treatment, leaving the GOP tally at 49 — one short needed to confirm him.

President Trump had worked on the sidelines to get Pompeo confirmed, convincing Paul to meet with Pompeo on Thursday, and using Twitter to urge his confirmation.

He tweeted Thursday afternoon: “Mike Pompeo is outstanding. First in his class at West Point. A top student at Harvard Law School. A success at whatever he has done. We need the Senate to approve Mike ASAP. He will be a great Secretary of State!”

Mike Pompeo is outstanding. First in his class at West Point. A top student at Harvard Law School. A success at whatever he has done. We need the Senate to approve Mike ASAP. He will be a great Secretary of State! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 19, 2018

Heitkamp is facing a tough reelection fight in November, in a state that Trump won by double-digits. Her seat was listed by CNN as most likely to flip in 2018.

Other vulnerable Democratic senators include Sens. Joe Manchin (WV), Claire McCaskill (MO), and Jon Tester (MT). They have not yet indicated how they would vote on Pompeo’s nomination.

A vote for Pompeo could happen as early as next week.

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee scheduled a committee vote for Pompeo for Monday at 5:00 p.m. Even if Paul, who sits on the committee, votes against Pompeo, his nomination would still advance to the Senate floor.

Other Democrats have been lining up against Pompeo. So far three senior Democrats have come in opposition — Sen. Jack Reed (RI), top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee; Sen. Ben Cardin (MD), top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; and Sen. Bob Menendez (NJ), senior member of former top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

Democrats Sen. Jeanne Shaheen (NH) and Sen. Cory Booker (NJ) have also come out against Pompeo.A tight labor market, thanks to President Trump’s “America First” agenda, is securing high-paying jobs for American teens who otherwise would have been pushed out of the workforce.

An extensive report by the Wall Street Journal reveals how businesses with coveted industry jobs are branching out to teenagers for employment opportunities as they face an ever-tightening labor market.

Thayer McCollum, a 17-year-old high school student, secured a job at Avionics Specialists LLC, where he works part-time. McCollum told the Wall Street Journal that he’s “never had to work fast food” like many other teenagers and says, “It’s good to know I already have employable skills.”

For teens like McCollum, Trump’s tight labor market — wherein a growing economy and stricter immigration enforcement have led disenfranchized American workers back to the labor market — has given them opportunities that would have been impossible in a flooded labor market with stagnant wages.

The Wall Street Journal noted:

The 12-month average unemployment rate for teens in March was 13.9%, the lowest year-round average since 2001 and about half that in 2010. In July 2017, the month the most teens work, unemployment for 16-through-19-year-olds fell to 13.3%, the lowest midsummer rate since 1969, when the U.S. was embroiled in the Vietnam War. [Emphasis added] “An increasingly tight labor market is pulling many workers who had been out of the labor force back in, teens included,” said Abigail Wozniak, a University of Notre Dame labor economist. Teens might wield an advantage, she said, because they “often have better computer skills. They are not all your typical low-skilled worker.” [Emphasis added]

Other companies are looking to hire American teens in the Trump economy, such as General Electric and Michelin North America Inc.

The tight labor market is forcing General Electric, for example, to hire teens for coveted jobs, with one teenager profiled by the Wall Street Journal mentioning how he had multiple job offers at a recent job recruiting event.

Wall Street Journal reports:

“It gets very dire,” she said. “We’re willing to branch out.” For the first time, GE plant managers may consider high-school technical training toward the experience required for the jobs, she said. “Then we could bring some of them in as seniors.” [Emphasis added] Julian Cornwall, 17, a Cincinnati high-school junior with machining skills, fielded 13 job offers. “They seemed really eager,” Julian said of the multiple companies that pursued him. “They’re all just after us.” [Emphasis added]

Breitbart News has chronicled how Trump’s tightened labor market has led to historic wage increases for American workers and job opportunities for workers who have not been in the labor market for years.

There has been history-making wage growth for American workers in the construction industry, the garment industry, for workers employed at small businesses, black Americans, and restaurant workers. The tight labor market has also secured high-paying wages for overtime workers.A tight labor market, thanks to President Trump’s “America First” agenda, is securing high-paying jobs for American teens who otherwise would have been pushed out of the workforce.

An extensive report by the Wall Street Journal reveals how businesses with coveted industry jobs are branching out to teenagers for employment opportunities as they face an ever-tightening labor market.

Thayer McCollum, a 17-year-old high school student, secured a job at Avionics Specialists LLC, where he works part-time. McCollum told the Wall Street Journal that he’s “never had to work fast food” like many other teenagers and says, “It’s good to know I already have employable skills.”

For teens like McCollum, Trump’s tight labor market — wherein a growing economy and stricter immigration enforcement have led disenfranchized American workers back to the labor market — has given them opportunities that would have been impossible in a flooded labor market with stagnant wages.

The Wall Street Journal noted:

The 12-month average unemployment rate for teens in March was 13.9%, the lowest year-round average since 2001 and about half that in 2010. In July 2017, the month the most teens work, unemployment for 16-through-19-year-olds fell to 13.3%, the lowest midsummer rate since 1969, when the U.S. was embroiled in the Vietnam War. [Emphasis added] “An increasingly tight labor market is pulling many workers who had been out of the labor force back in, teens included,” said Abigail Wozniak, a University of Notre Dame labor economist. Teens might wield an advantage, she said, because they “often have better computer skills. They are not all your typical low-skilled worker.” [Emphasis added]

Other companies are looking to hire American teens in the Trump economy, such as General Electric and Michelin North America Inc.

The tight labor market is forcing General Electric, for example, to hire teens for coveted jobs, with one teenager profiled by the Wall Street Journal mentioning how he had multiple job offers at a recent job recruiting event.

Wall Street Journal reports:

“It gets very dire,” she said. “We’re willing to branch out.” For the first time, GE plant managers may consider high-school technical training toward the experience required for the jobs, she said. “Then we could bring some of them in as seniors.” [Emphasis added] Julian Cornwall, 17, a Cincinnati high-school junior with machining skills, fielded 13 job offers. “They seemed really eager,” Julian said of the multiple companies that pursued him. “They’re all just after us.” [Emphasis added]

Breitbart News has chronicled how Trump’s tightened labor market has led to historic wage increases for American workers and job opportunities for workers who have not been in the labor market for years.

There has been history-making wage growth for American workers in the construction industry, the garment industry, for workers employed at small businesses, black Americans, and restaurant workers. The tight labor market has also secured high-paying wages for overtime workers.The number of new immigrants on food stamps has more than tripled over the last decade, a study by the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) reveals.

Between 2007 and 2017, food stamp usage by new immigrants to the United States has more than tripled from four percent in 2007 to 13 percent in 2017, CIS Director of Research Steven Camarotta finds in his latest study.

Native-born Americans’ food stamp usage increased as well, but not as much as new immigrants. For Americans, about six percent were on food stamps in 2007. In 2017, the number of native-born American households taking food stamps has ticked up to about ten percent.

The research means that new immigrants are now more likely than native-born Americans to use food stamps.

If an amnesty for illegal aliens enrolled in or eligible for the President Obama-created Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program passed through the Republican-controlled Congress, about one in five amnesty recipients would end up on food stamps, Breitbart News reports.The number of new immigrants on food stamps has more than tripled over the last decade, a study by the Center for Immigration Studies (CIS) reveals.

Between 2007 and 2017, food stamp usage by new immigrants to the United States has more than tripled from four percent in 2007 to 13 percent in 2017, CIS Director of Research Steven Camarotta finds in his latest study.

Native-born Americans’ food stamp usage increased as well, but not as much as new immigrants. For Americans, about six percent were on food stamps in 2007. In 2017, the number of native-born American households taking food stamps has ticked up to about ten percent.

The research means that new immigrants are now more likely than native-born Americans to use food stamps.

If an amnesty for illegal aliens enrolled in or eligible for the President Obama-created Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program passed through the Republican-controlled Congress, about one in five amnesty recipients would end up on food stamps, Breitbart News reports.Border Patrol agents in the Laredo Sector arrested more than 190 Bangladeshi nationals who illegally crossed the border from Mexico into Texas since October 1, 2017. This number of illegal border crossers from a country that many call a hotbed of terrorism is more than were arrested in all of Fiscal Year 2017, officials told Breitbart Texas on Thursday.

“When we talk about the different groups that are crossing into an area, what we’re trying to draw attention to is a more comprehensive look at our threat picture,” Acting Chief Patrol Agent Jason D. Owens told Breitbart Texas during a recent phone interview. “We need to stay away from just focusing on the family units and Unaccompanied Alien Children that are coming from Central America and Mexico. What the men and women of the U.S. Border Patrol are dealing with on a daily basis is so much more complex than that.”

Border Patrol agents in the sector Owens commands arrested 191 Bangladeshi nationals who illegally crossed the border from Mexico into South Texas since the beginning of Fiscal Year 2018 in October, according to information provided to Breitbart Texas by Laredo Sector officials. During the entire FY 2017, Laredo Sector agents arrested only 181 Bangladeshi nationals, Chief Owens stated. During FY 2016, there was only one Bangladeshi arrested in the Laredo sector.

“You have to look not only at the numbers of folks coming across in our Area of Responsibility (AOR),” Owens explained, “but also, who they are and where they’re from because that very much affects how we meet the threat.”

“When you have countries like Bangladesh that have had potential ties to terrorism in the past — well, these folks that are coming from that country, what is their intent when they are crossing into the United States illegally?” the sector chief asked. “What is their ultimate destination? What is their goal?”

Bangladesh has been described by many as a hotbed of terrorist activity. In March 2017, the British government issued a travel advisory for Bangladesh to its citizens warning of potential terror attacks. The warning cited several incidents of terrorist activity in the months leading up to the travel advisory’s issuance.

In 2016, CNN and The Economist spotlighted terrorist activity in Bangladesh. And, in February 2017, the Tony Blair’s Institute for Global Change wrote, “Bangladesh is alternately heralded as a beacon of tolerance and secularism in the Muslim-majority world or a hotbed of Islamist militancy.”

Border Patrol Agent Hector Garza, in his capacity as president of the National Border Patrol Council Local 2455, told Breitbart Texas the apprehension of these Bangladeshi nationals in the Laredo sector shows there is a “clear pipeline” from countries that are home to terrorists through Mexico and into the U.S.

“We have been lucky to catch these groups but there is no telling how many other people from countries that sponsor terrorism could be utilizing that same pipeline,” Agent Garza stated.

Laredo Sector Assistant Chief Patrol Agent Gabriel Acosta told Breitbart Texas on Thursday that the Bangladeshi nationals do not pick their point of entry into the U.S. “That is determined by the transnational criminal organization (TCO) that works with the smugglers from the country of origin, into South America, up through Central America, and into Mexico,” Acosta explained. “They are paying upward of $27,000 each to be smuggled into the U.S.”

Acosta said the Bangladeshis are not trying to be sneaky in crossing the border nor are they trying to avoid detection and arrest. “They have been coached by the TCO on what to say and how to make a ‘credible fear’ claim,” he stated.

Acosta said the Bangladeshis typically begin their journey from their home country to Brazil. From there, they utilize nearly any form of transportation available. Those include planes, trains, boats, horses, and even walking, he explained. Some of the people being smuggled pay their fee upfront while others arrive in the U.S. in debt and have to work off the fees after they arrive at their destination.

Of the 191 Bangladeshi’s captured during the first half of FY 2018, 100 percent were males, mostly between the ages of 18-35, Acosta stated.

FBI agents with the Joint Terrorism Task Force are notified each time a group of Bangladeshis are arrested, he explained. The agents conduct a throughout background check and biometric scan. The agents also check the names against the terrorist watch list.

Acosta said a “small number” of these checks resulted in finding “derogatory information.” He said this is most often an association with someone who is already designated as a person of interest.

Chief Owens said there have been incidents where some of the adult Bangladeshi males have attempted to present themselves as minors. “We have had incidents where some would attempt to present themselves as juveniles, or represent themselves as family units when in fact there is no blood relationship,” Owens stated. “The interviewers will try and bear that out as to whether or not it’s true.”

“Everybody that we encounter will get turned over to ICE ERO (Enforcement and Removal Operations),” Owens explained. “From there, their removal proceedings are handled by that agency after a hearing.”

Assistant Chief Acosta explained further. “Because of the ‘credible fear’ law and the coaching received by the Bangladeshis from the TCOs, ERO officers will issue a notice to appear for a future immigration hearing. “In many cases, we will never see them again,” he said.

The Laredo Sector chief said these Bangladeshis are a great example of why the U.S. needs to look differently at the border.

“For us, its important that when folks are looking at border security as an issue, that we look at the threat in a holistic fashion,” Owens explained. “Don’t just focus on the numbers of people coming across. You have to also look at what that makeup is and also who is responsible. Because that actually goes to the threat that not only exists along the border but into the interior as well.”

“You may not have 50,000 people crossing every single month,” Cheif Owens concluded, “but those that are crossing may pose a very significant threat in their own right.”

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX, GAB, and Facebook.

(Disclosure: Breitbart Texas sponsored the Green Line podcast for the NBPC in an effort to provide a platform for agents to inform the public about the realities on the border and what Border Patrol agents face. Director Brandon Darby received an award from the Laredo chapter of the NBPC for his work in helping to defend and bring a voice to Border Patrol agents. Breitbart News assisted in covering funeral costs for a slain Border Patrol agent previously.)Border Patrol agents in the Laredo Sector arrested more than 190 Bangladeshi nationals who illegally crossed the border from Mexico into Texas since October 1, 2017. This number of illegal border crossers from a country that many call a hotbed of terrorism is more than were arrested in all of Fiscal Year 2017, officials told Breitbart Texas on Thursday.

“When we talk about the different groups that are crossing into an area, what we’re trying to draw attention to is a more comprehensive look at our threat picture,” Acting Chief Patrol Agent Jason D. Owens told Breitbart Texas during a recent phone interview. “We need to stay away from just focusing on the family units and Unaccompanied Alien Children that are coming from Central America and Mexico. What the men and women of the U.S. Border Patrol are dealing with on a daily basis is so much more complex than that.”

Border Patrol agents in the sector Owens commands arrested 191 Bangladeshi nationals who illegally crossed the border from Mexico into South Texas since the beginning of Fiscal Year 2018 in October, according to information provided to Breitbart Texas by Laredo Sector officials. During the entire FY 2017, Laredo Sector agents arrested only 181 Bangladeshi nationals, Chief Owens stated. During FY 2016, there was only one Bangladeshi arrested in the Laredo sector.

“You have to look not only at the numbers of folks coming across in our Area of Responsibility (AOR),” Owens explained, “but also, who they are and where they’re from because that very much affects how we meet the threat.”

“When you have countries like Bangladesh that have had potential ties to terrorism in the past — well, these folks that are coming from that country, what is their intent when they are crossing into the United States illegally?” the sector chief asked. “What is their ultimate destination? What is their goal?”

Bangladesh has been described by many as a hotbed of terrorist activity. In March 2017, the British government issued a travel advisory for Bangladesh to its citizens warning of potential terror attacks. The warning cited several incidents of terrorist activity in the months leading up to the travel advisory’s issuance.

In 2016, CNN and The Economist spotlighted terrorist activity in Bangladesh. And, in February 2017, the Tony Blair’s Institute for Global Change wrote, “Bangladesh is alternately heralded as a beacon of tolerance and secularism in the Muslim-majority world or a hotbed of Islamist militancy.”

Border Patrol Agent Hector Garza, in his capacity as president of the National Border Patrol Council Local 2455, told Breitbart Texas the apprehension of these Bangladeshi nationals in the Laredo sector shows there is a “clear pipeline” from countries that are home to terrorists through Mexico and into the U.S.

“We have been lucky to catch these groups but there is no telling how many other people from countries that sponsor terrorism could be utilizing that same pipeline,” Agent Garza stated.

Laredo Sector Assistant Chief Patrol Agent Gabriel Acosta told Breitbart Texas on Thursday that the Bangladeshi nationals do not pick their point of entry into the U.S. “That is determined by the transnational criminal organization (TCO) that works with the smugglers from the country of origin, into South America, up through Central America, and into Mexico,” Acosta explained. “They are paying upward of $27,000 each to be smuggled into the U.S.”

Acosta said the Bangladeshis are not trying to be sneaky in crossing the border nor are they trying to avoid detection and arrest. “They have been coached by the TCO on what to say and how to make a ‘credible fear’ claim,” he stated.

Acosta said the Bangladeshis typically begin their journey from their home country to Brazil. From there, they utilize nearly any form of transportation available. Those include planes, trains, boats, horses, and even walking, he explained. Some of the people being smuggled pay their fee upfront while others arrive in the U.S. in debt and have to work off the fees after they arrive at their destination.

Of the 191 Bangladeshi’s captured during the first half of FY 2018, 100 percent were males, mostly between the ages of 18-35, Acosta stated.

FBI agents with the Joint Terrorism Task Force are notified each time a group of Bangladeshis are arrested, he explained. The agents conduct a throughout background check and biometric scan. The agents also check the names against the terrorist watch list.

Acosta said a “small number” of these checks resulted in finding “derogatory information.” He said this is most often an association with someone who is already designated as a person of interest.

Chief Owens said there have been incidents where some of the adult Bangladeshi males have attempted to present themselves as minors. “We have had incidents where some would attempt to present themselves as juveniles, or represent themselves as family units when in fact there is no blood relationship,” Owens stated. “The interviewers will try and bear that out as to whether or not it’s true.”

“Everybody that we encounter will get turned over to ICE ERO (Enforcement and Removal Operations),” Owens explained. “From there, their removal proceedings are handled by that agency after a hearing.”

Assistant Chief Acosta explained further. “Because of the ‘credible fear’ law and the coaching received by the Bangladeshis from the TCOs, ERO officers will issue a notice to appear for a future immigration hearing. “In many cases, we will never see them again,” he said.

The Laredo Sector chief said these Bangladeshis are a great example of why the U.S. needs to look differently at the border.

“For us, its important that when folks are looking at border security as an issue, that we look at the threat in a holistic fashion,” Owens explained. “Don’t just focus on the numbers of people coming across. You have to also look at what that makeup is and also who is responsible. Because that actually goes to the threat that not only exists along the border but into the interior as well.”

“You may not have 50,000 people crossing every single month,” Cheif Owens concluded, “but those that are crossing may pose a very significant threat in their own right.”

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX, GAB, and Facebook.

(Disclosure: Breitbart Texas sponsored the Green Line podcast for the NBPC in an effort to provide a platform for agents to inform the public about the realities on the border and what Border Patrol agents face. Director Brandon Darby received an award from the Laredo chapter of the NBPC for his work in helping to defend and bring a voice to Border Patrol agents. Breitbart News assisted in covering funeral costs for a slain Border Patrol agent previously.)Mexican immigration authorities rescued over 100 Central American migrants who were left to die in a truck trailer. The 55 children and 48 adults were left without food or water for two days, according to reports. Immigration agents also found 88 additional migrants packed into a bus with a seating capacity of only 42.

Immigration authorities in Mexico said they found 103 migrants “packed into a truck in the Gulf Coast state of Veracruz,” the Associated Press reported. Officials said the 55 minors and 48 adults were left without food or water for two days. It is also likely there were no bathroom facilities for the migrants to use while trapped inside the refrigerated trailer. The immigration officials made the discovery in the Gulf state of Veracruz.

The migrants can be seen huddling in cold conditions inside the trailer in the photo provided by the National Immigration Institute in Mexico. All but one originated from Guatemala and 55 were reported to be minors.

Elsewhere, Mexican immigration officials found 88 more from Guatemala in an overcrowded bus in the north-central state of Hidalgo. The bus had a seating capacity for 42 people, officials stated. Forty-five of the 88 migrants were reported to be children accompanied by their relatives.

These discoveries are not uncommon in Mexico as tens of thousands of Central American migrants make their way across the country destined for the U.S. Border.

In February, the National Immigration Institute reported the rescue of 40 Hondurans locked inside a cargo truck in Veracruz. The immigration agents found the truck traveling on a “little-traveled road.” Officials said the migrants were suffering signs of dehydration and suffocation as the truck was poorly ventilated.

The agents provided food and water to the “girls, children, and adults” who said they had left Honduras and expected to be delivered to the U.S. Border where they planned to cross.

Also in February, Mexican immigration agents found 103 migrants just south of the Texas-Mexico Border. Agents found the 36 minors and 65 adults abandoned in a trailer in the border town of Ciudad Camargo, Tamaulipas, just south of Rio Grande City, Texas. A military patrol heard the migrants banging on the walls of the trailer. The migrants included unaccompanied children and families from Honduras (91), Guatemala (7), and El Salvador (5).

The arrests of unaccompanied minors and children traveling with only one parent or guardian skyrocketed in March and approached levels not seen since the Obama Administration in 2013 and 2014, Breitbart Texas reported earlier this month. Officials reported a 203 percent increase in March when compared to March 2017.

Border Patrol agents arrested nearly 38,000 during March 2017. Of those, 4,171 were Unaccompanied Alien Children and 8,882 were Family Unit Aliens.

“The crisis at our Southwest border is real,” Department of Homeland Security Press Secretary Tyler Q. Houlton said in a written statement obtained by Breitbart Texas. “The number of illegal border crossings during the month of March shows an urgent need to address the ongoing situation at the border. We saw a 203 percent increase from March 2017 compared to March 2018 and a 37 percent increase from last month to this month – the largest increase from month to month since 2011.”

In an exclusive interview with Breitbart Texas, Border Patrol Agent Chris Cabrera (in his capacity as vice president of the National Border Patrol Council Local 3307) described the impact of this surge of unaccompanied minors and families on border security.

“We have the buildings to handle the influx of these people,” Cabrera explained, “but we don’t have the manpower. The influx is causing agents to be taken off the front line to assist with processing the families and unaccompanied minors. This leads to gaps in security and not enough agents to back each other up in the field.”

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX, GAB, and Facebook.

(Disclosure: Breitbart Texas sponsored the Green Line podcast for the NBPC in an effort to provide a platform for agents to inform the public about the realities on the border and what Border Patrol agents face. Director Brandon Darby received an award from the Laredo chapter of the NBPC for his work in helping to defend and bring a voice to Border Patrol agents. Breitbart News assisted in covering funeral costs for a slain Border Patrol agent previously.)Mexican immigration authorities rescued over 100 Central American migrants who were left to die in a truck trailer. The 55 children and 48 adults were left without food or water for two days, according to reports. Immigration agents also found 88 additional migrants packed into a bus with a seating capacity of only 42.

Immigration authorities in Mexico said they found 103 migrants “packed into a truck in the Gulf Coast state of Veracruz,” the Associated Press reported. Officials said the 55 minors and 48 adults were left without food or water for two days. It is also likely there were no bathroom facilities for the migrants to use while trapped inside the refrigerated trailer. The immigration officials made the discovery in the Gulf state of Veracruz.

The migrants can be seen huddling in cold conditions inside the trailer in the photo provided by the National Immigration Institute in Mexico. All but one originated from Guatemala and 55 were reported to be minors.

Elsewhere, Mexican immigration officials found 88 more from Guatemala in an overcrowded bus in the north-central state of Hidalgo. The bus had a seating capacity for 42 people, officials stated. Forty-five of the 88 migrants were reported to be children accompanied by their relatives.

These discoveries are not uncommon in Mexico as tens of thousands of Central American migrants make their way across the country destined for the U.S. Border.

In February, the National Immigration Institute reported the rescue of 40 Hondurans locked inside a cargo truck in Veracruz. The immigration agents found the truck traveling on a “little-traveled road.” Officials said the migrants were suffering signs of dehydration and suffocation as the truck was poorly ventilated.

The agents provided food and water to the “girls, children, and adults” who said they had left Honduras and expected to be delivered to the U.S. Border where they planned to cross.

Also in February, Mexican immigration agents found 103 migrants just south of the Texas-Mexico Border. Agents found the 36 minors and 65 adults abandoned in a trailer in the border town of Ciudad Camargo, Tamaulipas, just south of Rio Grande City, Texas. A military patrol heard the migrants banging on the walls of the trailer. The migrants included unaccompanied children and families from Honduras (91), Guatemala (7), and El Salvador (5).

The arrests of unaccompanied minors and children traveling with only one parent or guardian skyrocketed in March and approached levels not seen since the Obama Administration in 2013 and 2014, Breitbart Texas reported earlier this month. Officials reported a 203 percent increase in March when compared to March 2017.

Border Patrol agents arrested nearly 38,000 during March 2017. Of those, 4,171 were Unaccompanied Alien Children and 8,882 were Family Unit Aliens.

“The crisis at our Southwest border is real,” Department of Homeland Security Press Secretary Tyler Q. Houlton said in a written statement obtained by Breitbart Texas. “The number of illegal border crossings during the month of March shows an urgent need to address the ongoing situation at the border. We saw a 203 percent increase from March 2017 compared to March 2018 and a 37 percent increase from last month to this month – the largest increase from month to month since 2011.”

In an exclusive interview with Breitbart Texas, Border Patrol Agent Chris Cabrera (in his capacity as vice president of the National Border Patrol Council Local 3307) described the impact of this surge of unaccompanied minors and families on border security.

“We have the buildings to handle the influx of these people,” Cabrera explained, “but we don’t have the manpower. The influx is causing agents to be taken off the front line to assist with processing the families and unaccompanied minors. This leads to gaps in security and not enough agents to back each other up in the field.”

Bob Price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for Breitbart Texas. He is a founding member of the Breitbart Texas team. Follow him on Twitter @BobPriceBBTX, GAB, and Facebook.

(Disclosure: Breitbart Texas sponsored the Green Line podcast for the NBPC in an effort to provide a platform for agents to inform the public about the realities on the border and what Border Patrol agents face. Director Brandon Darby received an award from the Laredo chapter of the NBPC for his work in helping to defend and bring a voice to Border Patrol agents. Breitbart News assisted in covering funeral costs for a slain Border Patrol agent previously.)Scientists have developed a tiny subdermal patch that monitors calcium levels in the bloodstream and creates a visible mole when cancer causes those levels to spike.

The concept is deceptively simple. Cancer causes calcium levels in the bloodstream to rise dramatically. The patch, implanted under the surface of the skin, merely releases melanin to create a small mole as soon as it detects levels high enough to indicate the presence of a developing tumor.

Swiss scientists of the ETH Zurich University in Switzerland claim that the patch already recognizes breast, colon, lung, and prostate cancers. Moreover, it does so even in the very early stages of development, giving potential victims a much higher chance of receiving successful treatment.

ETH Zurich Professor at the Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering Martin Fussenegger explains: “Nowadays, people generally go to the doctor only when the tumour begins to cause problems,” he said. “Unfortunately, by that point it is often too late.”

Since “early detection increases the chance of survival significantly,” the implant should represent hope more than dread. While “an implant carrier should see a doctor for further evaluation after the mole appears,” it is important to understand that this is a warning sign, not a death sentence. Fussenegger reminds that “the mole does not mean that the person is likely to die soon.”

According to experts, “1,688,780 new cancer cases and 600,920 cancer deaths” were projected to occur in the United States in 2017 alone. With something as simple as this calcium monitoring patch, those numbers could see a huge reduction. If the patch proves practical and effective, its implementation would mean another major step toward the eradication of one of humanity’s greatest plagues.Scientists have developed a tiny subdermal patch that monitors calcium levels in the bloodstream and creates a visible mole when cancer causes those levels to spike.

The concept is deceptively simple. Cancer causes calcium levels in the bloodstream to rise dramatically. The patch, implanted under the surface of the skin, merely releases melanin to create a small mole as soon as it detects levels high enough to indicate the presence of a developing tumor.

Swiss scientists of the ETH Zurich University in Switzerland claim that the patch already recognizes breast, colon, lung, and prostate cancers. Moreover, it does so even in the very early stages of development, giving potential victims a much higher chance of receiving successful treatment.

ETH Zurich Professor at the Department of Biosystems Science and Engineering Martin Fussenegger explains: “Nowadays, people generally go to the doctor only when the tumour begins to cause problems,” he said. “Unfortunately, by that point it is often too late.”

Since “early detection increases the chance of survival significantly,” the implant should represent hope more than dread. While “an implant carrier should see a doctor for further evaluation after the mole appears,” it is important to understand that this is a warning sign, not a death sentence. Fussenegger reminds that “the mole does not mean that the person is likely to die soon.”

According to experts, “1,688,780 new cancer cases and 600,920 cancer deaths” were projected to occur in the United States in 2017 alone. With something as simple as this calcium monitoring patch, those numbers could see a huge reduction. If the patch proves practical and effective, its implementation would mean another major step toward the eradication of one of humanity’s greatest plagues.Canadian homeopath and naturopath Anke Zimmermann reportedly gave a small child diluted saliva from a rabid animal to treat his temper.

Jonah had been “restless and irritable,” misbehaving at bedtime, expressing fears of wolves and werewolves, and crawling under a table to growl at his classmates. Most parents would describe such a child as a handful or take them to a pediatric professional if the behavioral problems became a health issue. Unfortunately for Jonah, he was instead subjected by his mother to Zimmermann’s “help.”

According to Zimmermann, 4-year-old “Jonah” was given 2 pellets of “Lyssinum 200CH,” made from the diluted saliva of a rabid dog. “Within a minute or two of giving him the remedy Jonah smiled at me very broadly and beautifully, as if all the lights had just gone on,” Zimmermann exulted in a blog post. “We said our good-byes and I felt a warm feeling of hope for this boy.”

Of course, there is no evidence that this type of treatment actually has any effect. Even Zimmermann herself admitted that the pellets she fed Jonah contained such trace amounts of dog saliva that the rabies virus would not actually be present. But according to homeopathic doctrine, “like cures like,” and results from even the barest trace of some tangentially related substance are enough to treat or cure.

Unfortunately, homeopathic treatment can be dangerous for a much more important reason: People searching for quackery to solve their ills tend to evade actual treatment. And “prescribed” treatments can be outright harmful to the person receiving them. It is why the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has decided to tighten its grip on the market.

Provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry expressed her “grave concerns” about such “treatments” when speaking to the CBC. “I will be writing to Health Canada about this preparation again,” Henry said. “There’s no way I can understand why we would have anything that was meant to be saliva of a rabid dog approved for use in this country.”Canadian homeopath and naturopath Anke Zimmermann reportedly gave a small child diluted saliva from a rabid animal to treat his temper.

Jonah had been “restless and irritable,” misbehaving at bedtime, expressing fears of wolves and werewolves, and crawling under a table to growl at his classmates. Most parents would describe such a child as a handful or take them to a pediatric professional if the behavioral problems became a health issue. Unfortunately for Jonah, he was instead subjected by his mother to Zimmermann’s “help.”

According to Zimmermann, 4-year-old “Jonah” was given 2 pellets of “Lyssinum 200CH,” made from the diluted saliva of a rabid dog. “Within a minute or two of giving him the remedy Jonah smiled at me very broadly and beautifully, as if all the lights had just gone on,” Zimmermann exulted in a blog post. “We said our good-byes and I felt a warm feeling of hope for this boy.”

Of course, there is no evidence that this type of treatment actually has any effect. Even Zimmermann herself admitted that the pellets she fed Jonah contained such trace amounts of dog saliva that the rabies virus would not actually be present. But according to homeopathic doctrine, “like cures like,” and results from even the barest trace of some tangentially related substance are enough to treat or cure.

Unfortunately, homeopathic treatment can be dangerous for a much more important reason: People searching for quackery to solve their ills tend to evade actual treatment. And “prescribed” treatments can be outright harmful to the person receiving them. It is why the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has decided to tighten its grip on the market.

Provincial health officer Dr. Bonnie Henry expressed her “grave concerns” about such “treatments” when speaking to the CBC. “I will be writing to Health Canada about this preparation again,” Henry said. “There’s no way I can understand why we would have anything that was meant to be saliva of a rabid dog approved for use in this country.”Valletta (AFP) – The investigative work of slain Maltese journalist Daphne Caruana Galizia has been pursued by dozens of colleagues worldwide who this week published a flurry of revelations and delved into the mystery surrounding her murder.

“You can kill the messenger, but not the message,” said French journalist Laurent Richard, who launched the “Forbidden Stories” project three years ago to continue the work of journalists silenced by murder or imprisonment.

The “Daphne Project” is the first fruit of his initiative.

For six months, 45 journalists from 18 media outlets around the world have worked together, secretly pouring through a mass of documents left behind by Caruana Galizia, who was murdered last year by a bomb planted in her car.

Hated and admired in equal measures on the Mediterranean island, the 53-year-old spent much of her life shedding light on the dark-side of Maltese politics, exposing corruption and backdoor dealings of the country’s political and financial elite.

In the years leading up to her death she had gone after the ruling Labour party, virulently attacking Prime Minister Joseph Muscat and more recently also the leader of the opposition.

Her online blog garnered a readership of over 300,000, according to a documentary on French TV channel France 2 about the island of 430,000 inhabitants.

Her attacks, often cutting and personal, earned her many enemies.

– The murder plot –

The investigative work of the Daphne Project, based on thousands of documents and multiple testimonies, sheds light on the extensive police and forensics investigation, which led to the arrest of three men accused of perpetrating the gruesome murder.

Brothers George and Alfred Degiorgio, and Vincent Muscat, who were reportedly known to police in relation to other crimes, have pleaded not guilty to the killing and remained tight-lipped in custody.

But the project’s research paints a picture of a meticulously planned operation to assassinate the provocative blogger and suggests that the mastermind who ordered her death is still at large.

Their findings allege that the accused monitored the blogger’s home and attached a trigger SIM to the deadly car bomb which was then detonated via text message.

The phone which sent the message was ditched in the ocean and later recovered by police.

The murderous plan culminated in a ferocious explosion on the afternoon of October 16 as Caruana Galizia drove away from her home.

In an interview given to the Daphne Project, Caruana Galizia’s son Matthew recalls how after hearing the explosion he rushed from his home, running barefoot towards the crime scene he found his mother’s burnt out vehicle and parts of her body strewn across the road.

– “Playing with fire” –

On Wednesday, French daily Le Monde, one of Project Daphne collaborators, began to publish details of stories Caruana Galizia had been working on before her death.

One article denounces Malta’s “golden passport” law which allows Maltese citizenship to be purchased for one million euros, providing the buyer has resided on the island for at least one year — a stipulation put in place by the European Commission.

Project Daphne claims that Caruana Galizia’s criticism of the “golden passport” was “largely justified,” saying the condition of one-year residency was not being respected and process was allowing beneficiaries to circumvent international law.

“Beneficial tax laws, sanction avoidance… Malta is playing with fire”, wrote Le Monde.

“Candidates with sensitive profiles have fallen through the cracks. Individuals who have been prosecuted are on the list of passport buyers,” the paper said.

A second article follows the journalist’s suspicions about dubious links between the Azerbaijani regime and the Maltese Government.

In the article, the Daphne Project claimed to have “uncovered a very extensive network” of Maltese front companies owned by two ruling families of Azerbaijan.”Berlin (AFP) – Chancellor Angela Merkel touted Germany as a country “in which we live well and happily” during her re-election campaign. But those words ring hollow to the one in five children living in poverty in Europe’s top economy, with little prospect of climbing the social ladder.

It’s just gone 3:00 pm at the Lichtenberg youth centre in east Berlin, where youngsters are laying out cherry tomatoes and carefully chopped cucumber as they get ready to prepare dinner together.

For many of them, the weekday ritual is an eagerly awaited moment.

“We notice it a lot especially among the teenagers, they ask us: ‘When can we eat? I haven’t eaten all day’,” said Patric Tavanti, head of the centre run by the charity Caritas.

Many of the youngsters’ parents often lack the money or the time to provide regular meals, he said, adding that the centre aims to give the youths a space “where they can feel at home”.

“I come almost every day,” Leila, one of the teens, told AFP. “We chat, cook together and just have fun.”

– Downward spiral –

In Europe’s powerhouse, the economy is humming, public coffers have never been fuller and unemployment is at its lowest since reunification in 1990.

Yet some 20 percent of under-18s live in “relative poverty”, according to the family ministry, defined as living in households that have to get by on less than 60 percent of the average German household income.

For a single parent with one child, that amounts to a monthly net income below 1,192 euros ($1,470). For a family with four children, it’s under 2,355 euros.

Despite record employment, only a third of the parents of Germany’s roughly 2.8 million impoverished children have jobs, said Heinz Hilgers, of the Child Protection Association (Kinderschutzbund).

Beyond the material shortcomings they suffer, growing up poor takes its toll in many other, more insidious ways.

“It’s a downward spiral,” said professor Klaus Hurrelmann, of the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin.

“The children feel excluded, they start to feel ashamed when they can’t join in school excursions or invite friends over for a birthday party. They end up losing confidence in themselves and struggle at school,” he said.

– Falling behind at school –

Tavanti, of the Berlin youth centre, said it was a phenomenon he had witnessed first-hand.

“Just one of our adolescents is currently trying to pass the Abitur,” he said, referring to the secondary-school leaving certificate required to pursue higher education.

He believes many German schools struggle to meet the needs of these at-risk children, who often come from immigrant families or single-parent homes.

“We’re seeing a growing need for food, but also for help with homework and reading,” agreed Lars Dittebrand, who runs the Manna family centre in Berlin’s Gropiusstadt area, famed for its towering social housing estates.

Compounding the problem is Germany’s early-age education sorting system, critics say, which can prematurely put disadvantaged pupils on a less academic route, potentially leading to lower-paying and less secure jobs.

Decrying what it calls “hereditary poverty” in Germany, a study by the Bertelsmann Foundation think tank found that just some three to 16 percent of households, depending on calculations, managed to cross the poverty line and improve their lot.

“That’s how generations of poor children become poor adults and poor parents,” said Hilgers, of the Child Protection Association.

As well as being a stain on Germany’s conscience, it’s “a huge economic risk”, he warned, in a greying nation already grappling with a shortage of skilled labour.

– ‘Making their own way’ –

Germany’s new government, a repeat coalition of Merkel’s conservatives and the centre-left Social Democrats, has vowed to tackle the challenges by raising child benefits, offering more child care facilities and all-day schools to make it easier for parents, especially mothers, to work.

But for lawmaker Lisa Paus, of the opposition Greens party, those promises don’t go far enough.

She said Germany urgently needed to do more to support single parents.

“Poverty often starts when couples split up,” she said.

Indeed, statistics show that 45 percent of children raised by a sole parent, usually their mother, live in relative poverty.

Some politicians and campaigners have called for a basic monthly income for children of around 500 euros for the lowest-earning households to help break the poverty doom loop.

But for a government determined to maintain a balanced budget, any hint of lavish spending is anathema.

Instead, Family Minister Franziska Giffey plans to introduce a law in coming months aimed at improving the quality of daycare facilities, with a bigger emphasis on early-child development.

“Every child should be allowed to make their own way, regardless of where they come from and where they grew up,” she said.Washington (AFP) – US President Donald Trump repeatedly complained to FBI director James Comey in early 2017 that the Russia meddling investigation was a cloud over his young administration, weeks before firing him, leaked memorandums showed Thursday.

Trump “said he was trying to run the country and the cloud of this Russia business was making that difficult,” Comey wrote in a memo on a conversation they had on March 30, 2017.

Eleven days later, Trump again pressed Comey about the issue. The president told Comey that “he is trying to do work for the country, visit with foreign leaders, and any cloud, even a little cloud, gets in the way of that,” Comey wrote, referring to “the Russia thing.”

The memos, which Comey wrote immediately after several meetings with Trump in the weeks after his inauguration on January 20, 2017, depict a president deeply worried about the impact of the probe into Russian meddling in the election the previous year.

Obtained by AFP Thursday after the Justice Department released them to Congress, the memos could become evidence in a criminal investigation into whether Trump consciously tried to obstruct the probe.

Comey makes clear in his memos that he was uncomfortable with the pressure and that it was not completely proper, though at the time he did not allege the president had broken any laws.

But Comey never committed to easing off the investigation, which continues to examine a number of suspicious contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia.

Weeks after their last conversation, on May 9, Trump fired Comey, saying in an interview two days later that he decided to dismiss the FBI chief in part out of unhappiness over the Russia probe.

“In fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, you know, this thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story, an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election.”

“In my opinion, it should’ve been over with a long time ago.”

Much of what is in the memos, most notably Trump’s demand that Comey pledge his loyalty, has been known for nearly a year.

Comey wrote that the president repeatedly raised the still-unconfirmed story that Russians have a video of him with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel.

“The president said ‘this hookers thing’ is nonsense,” Comey wrote. However, Trump also said “that Putin had told him, ‘We have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world,’” Comey noted.NEW YORK (AP) — Super Bowl champion Philadelphia will host Atlanta to kick off the 2018 NFL season on Thursday night, Sept. 6.

Green Bay hosts Chicago in the first Sunday night matchup on Sept. 9, while the Monday nighters on opening weekend feature the New York Jets at Detroit, followed by the Los Angeles Rams at Oakland.

The Eagles also will play at England’s home of soccer when they take on the Jacksonville Jaguars in Week 8 at Wembley Stadium.

That’s one of four international games. The other match at Wembley will be the previous week with the Los Angeles Chargers hosting the Tennessee Titans. Tottenham Hotspur’s new stadium, also in London, will be the site for a Raiders home game on Oct. 14 against Seattle.

For the third straight year, the NFL will stage a game in Mexico City: the Rams will host Kansas City in a Week 11 Monday night game.

Thanksgiving will provide a feast of divisional games. The traditional doubleheader in Detroit and Dallas has the Lions playing the Bears, followed by the Redskins at the Cowboys. At night, it will be Atlanta visiting New Orleans.

Other intriguing matchups include Cleveland, which lost all 16 games last season, hosting archrival Pittsburgh on opening day; New England at Jacksonville in a rematch of the AFC title game in Week 2; the Eagles and Vikings in an NFC championship game redux in Philly on Oct. 7; and the Steelers vs. Patriots in Pittsburgh in Week 15.

“We like to open at home in front of our great fans and this will be the second season in a row we do it against the Steelers,” Browns coach Hue Jackson said. “We start with the best in our division.”

Fox, which will do 11 Thursday night games, begins its package in Week 4 with the Vikings at the Rams. Those contests also will be televised by NFL Network and in Spanish on Fox Deportes. NFL Network has seven exclusive broadcasts.

Flexible scheduling in which a Sunday afternoon game can be switched to the evening because it is a better matchup than the previously planned game will be in use for Weeks 11-17. But two Sundays in Weeks 5-10 also can have a game flexed to night.

In a new twist, flex scheduling will be used for Saturday games in Weeks 15 and 16. In Week 15, two games will be played on Saturday, Dec. 15: Houston at the New York Jets and Cleveland at Denver, with game times of 4:30 p.m. EST and 8:20 p.m. EST to be determined. In Week 16, two of four possible matchups will be scheduled for Saturday: Baltimore at the Chargers, Jacksonville at Miami, the New York Giants at Indianapolis, or Washington at Tennessee. Start times for Saturday games for Week 15 and 16 will be announced no later than following Week 8, with the contests not chosen for Saturday to be played on Sunday on the 16th weekend.

“We knew who our opponents would be, and that we would play seven games against teams that were in the playoffs last year, including two against the Super Bowl champions, so we knew it is going to be a challenging schedule,” said Pat Shurmur, preparing for his first season as Giants coach. “I don’t see anything remarkable about the schedule, but it is very challenging.”

As usual, no Sunday night game has been scheduled for the last day of the season, Dec. 30. That will be chosen after Week 16 games conclude.

The 2018 schedule has three three-game road trips, down from seven last year. The Saints, Rams and Ravens will have those three-game journeys, but the Ravens and Rams also have three-game homestands. In all, 12 franchises are home for three straight weeks, and Baltimore and Indianapolis have a bye in there, meaning neither club will leave home for a month.

Also, no team plays a road game following a road Monday night match. That occurred last year five times.

The playoffs begin with wild-card weekend on Jan. 5-6. The Super Bowl is Feb. 3 in Atlanta.

“I always look forward to this time of year, getting our players back in the building, getting back to football, and then on top of that we get to see how our schedule sets up and start our preparation,” Chiefs coach Andy Reid said. “We’ve got a lot of work to get done before Sept. 9. I’m excited to get started and I know Chiefs Kingdom will be supporting us the entire way.”

___

AP Sports Writer Tom Withers in Cleveland contributed.

___

For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/AP_NFLTORONTO (AP) — Brad Marchand scored the go-ahead goal in the second period and Tuukka Rask made 31 saves as the Boston Bruins defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs 3-1 on Thursday night to take a 3-1 lead in their first-round playoff series.

Torey Krug and Jake DeBrusk also had goals for the Bruins, who can win the Eastern Conference quarterfinal when they host Game 5 on Saturday at Boston’s TD Garden. David Pastrnak added two assists.

Tomas Plekanec scored the lone goal for the Leafs, who got 18 saves from Frederik Andersen.

Patrice Bergeron, part of a top line that combined for 20 points in the Bruins’ two home victories to open the series, was a surprise late scratch with an upper-body injury. Riley Nash took his spot between Marchand and Pastrnak.

Marchand snapped a 1-1 tie for Boston with 3:05 left in the second after the Bruins were called for icing. Leafs coach Mike Babcock put his top line, centered by Auston Matthews, out hoping to pounce on a tired group, but Nash won the draw to Adam McQuaid, whose clearing attempt up the boards skipped past Toronto defenseman Jake Gardiner. Pastrnak moved in on a 2-on-1 with Marchand, faking a shot to draw the overaggressive Nikita Zaitsev to him before feeding his linemate with a slick pass for a wide-open net.

The Leafs had a number of chances earlier in the period to go ahead, including Mitch Marner’s breakaway off a stretch pass from Morgan Rielly that Rask turned aside with the blocker, but were unable to get one by Rask.

Boston then made it 3-1 at 4:17 of the third. David Krejci blocked Travis Dermott’s shot and raced the other way on a 2-on-1 before finding DeBrusk, who beat a helpless Andersen after Roman Polak failed to block the pass across.

The Bruins stunned the Maple Leafs just 28 second into the game to quiet an electric Air Canada Centre when Krug’s snapshot from the sideboards found its way past Nash and Plekanec in front before glancing in off Andersen’s shoulder.

Toronto eventually got going and tied it at 7:43 when Marner fed a pass from his knees that was helped on by Patrick Marleau to Plekanec, who scored his first goal since being acquired from Montreal before the trade deadline.

The Leafs kept coming and nearly grabbed the lead later in the period, but Rask shot out his pad to deny Zach Hyman from in close as Toronto outshot Boston 12-7 through the opening 20 minutes.

NOTES: Pastrnak has 11 points in the series (four goals, seven assists), while Marchand has seven (two goals, five assists) despite Boston’s top line getting shut out in Game 3. … Plekanec had three assists in 20 combined regular-season and playoff games with Toronto before Thursday. … Leafs winger Leo Komarov sat out a second straight game with a lower-body injury. … Toronto center Nazem Kadri served the final game of his suspension for taking a run Boston forward Tommy Wingels in the series opener. Wingels suited up for the first time since the hit. … Game 7, if necessary, goes Wednesday in Boston.

UP NEXT

Game 5 on Saturday at Boston.COLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Evgeny Kuznetsov had a goal and two assists, and Braden Holtby stopped 23 shots as the Washington Capitals beat the Columbus Blue Jackets 4-1 on Thursday night to even their playoff series at two games apiece.

Tom Wilson and Alexander Ovechkin each had a goal and an assist, and T.J. Oshie also scored for the workmanlike Capitals, who won this time in regulation after the first three games of the best-of-7 series were decided in overtime. Game 5 is Saturday afternoon in Washington.

Columbus had overcome multi-goal deficits to win the first two games in Washington. When the series shifted to Columbus on Tuesday, the Capitals prevailed in double-overtime.

This one lacked the intensity of the first three, and there was no comeback magic for the Blue Jackets. In fact, they were just flat through a good chunk of the first two periods, chasing pucks and flubbing passes. They finally seem to get out of the quicksand near the end of the second period after coach John Tortorella started switching up the lines.

Boone Jenner scored, and Sergei Bobrovsky had 29 saves for Columbus.

Washington led 1-0 after the opening period. Just after Columbus’ Thomas Vanek knocked the puck out of the blue paint with his glove, Kuznetsov shoveled the carom from the right boards out to Wilson, who connected from above the circle at 6:16.

The Capitals got their second halfway through the second period on a power play when Oshie flicked in a rebound. Ovechkin’s third-period goal made it 3-0.

Jenner redirected Josh Anderson’s slap shot 6:22 into the third to make it a 3-1 game and finally give the record Nationwide Arena crowd of 19,395 something to cheer about. Kuznetsov added an empty-net goal with 2:19 left in the game.

NOTES: Washington F Andre Burakovsky missed a second game with an upper-body injury. It’s not clear if he will play in Game 5 on Saturday. … The Capitals have scored the first goal in all four playoff games. … Washington has seven power-play goals in the series. … Ovechkin has three goals and three assists in the four games.

UP NEXT

Game 5 is Saturday in Washington.

___

Follow Mitch Stacy on Twitter at https://twitter.com/mitchstacy

___

More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockeyMIAMI (AP) — Joel Embiid had trouble with his new mask.

It didn’t slow him down.

Embiid’s playoff debut was a smashing success for Philadelphia. The All-Star center returned from a 10-game absence by scoring 23 points, including a personal 7-0 run down the stretch that iced matters, and the 76ers reclaimed control of their Eastern Conference first-round series by topping the Miami Heat 128-108 on Thursday night.

The 76ers outscored the Heat 32-14 in the fourth quarter, and took a 2-1 lead in the series.

“I am just so proud of what he did,” 76ers coach Brett Brown said.

Rightly so, too. Embiid started the day doubtful, ended it dominant, and had plenty of help as well. Marco Belinelli and Dario Saric each scored 21 for Philadelphia, and Ben Simmons finished with 19 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists.

“It was annoying,” Embiid said of getting used to the mask. “But that was the only way I could play in this game, if I wore the mask and protected my face with goggles. I had to work through it and I did.”

Thursday began with the 76ers saying Embiid wasn’t likely to play. His status was upgraded to probable in the afternoon and then he finally was inserted into the starting lineup — medical clearance coming from the team, mask clearance coming from the NBA after the league signed off on the dark, translucent, carbon-fiber, goggled apparatus that was made in consultation with independent experts.

The mask came off a couple times, the goggles were askew at times as well — Heat forward Justise Winslow even stomping on them once for good measure, a play that Brown chalked up to the intensity of playoff basketball — but in the end Embiid found a way.

“It’s definitely a different look when you have an All-Star back in the lineup,” Winslow said. “It changes things, for sure.”

Goran Dragic scored 23 points for Miami, which got 19 from Winslow and 14 from Josh Richardson.

Game 4 is Saturday afternoon.

Embiid banked in a turnaround straightaway jumper — a fortuitous bounce — to put Philadelphia up nine late, then connected on a 3-pointer and added a pair of throws to start the spurt that put away the game.

Meanwhile, Miami couldn’t find any sort of stride.

Hassan Whiteside was mired in foul trouble and ineffective, finishing the night all of 1 for 1 from the field for five points. Dwyane Wade, who Miami needed to be superb in the win at Philadelphia in Game 2, shot 2 for 10. Wayne Ellington, Miami’s single-season leader in 3-pointers after making a record 227 this season, was 1 for 5 from the floor.

The Heat won Game 2 by controlling the physical battle.

Game 3 was another street fight, and Philadelphia didn’t back down. Philly won Game 1 by dominating the second half, and Game 3 went a similar way. The 76ers outscored Miami 74-43 in the second half of Game 1, and 65-44 in the second half on Thursday.

“It’s clear that the first game and the third game were played on their terms,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said.

TIP-INS

76ers: Philadelphia had a pair of shooters fouled beyond the 3-point line in the first quarter: Robert Covington made two of his three free throws, and Belinelli turned his chance into a four-point play. … Embiid missed his first five shots, then put his finger to his lips in the universal “shush” sound to the crowd after getting his first one to fall.

Heat: Winslow’s previous season high for scoring was 18. … Wade, who carried Miami to the win at Philadelphia in Game 2, didn’t get his first field goal in this one until 2:46 was left in the third. … The Heat allowed Philadelphia to shoot 51 percent.

MANY WHISTLES

The teams combined for 56 personal fouls — Heat 30, 76ers 26. Each team also was whistled for three technicals.

IN MEMORIAM

The game was preceded by a moment of silence to remember the lives of Erin Popovich, the wife of San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich, and former first lady Barbara Bush. Brown is a former a Spurs assistant who has remained close with the Popovich family, and said Erin Popovich “was a star, like a real star. A very strong woman, and somebody that will be missed.”

WELCOME BACK

Among those in the sold-out crowd were former Heat point guards Mario Chalmers and Jason Williams, the starters on Miami’s three NBA championship teams. Both got warm ovations when shown on the videoboards around the arena.

UP NEXT

Game 4 is Saturday in Miami, a rare 2:30 p.m. start.NEW ORLEANS (AP) — Nikola Mirotic scored a career playoff-best 30 points to go with eight rebounds, three steals and a block, and the New Orleans Pelicans beat the Portland Trail Blazers 119-102 on Thursday night to take a commanding 3-0 lead in their first-round playoff series.

Anthony Davis had 28 points, 11 rebounds, three steals and two blocks for New Orleans, which can advance past the first round of the playoffs for the first time since 2008 with one more victory.

The 6-foot-10 Mirotic, acquired in a midseason trade after DeMarcus Cousins’ season-ending Achilles tear, made 12 of 15 shots, scoring on everything from quick-release 3-pointers to cutting dunks and fast-break layups.

Damian Lillard scored 20 for Portland, but also missed nine of 14 shots. CJ McCollum scored 22 and Al-Farouq Aminu added 21, but Portland trailed by double digits for most of the first half and all of the second.

Game 4 is Saturday.

___

More NBA basketball: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketballThe American Federation of Teachers (AFT) cut ties with Wells Fargo Thursday over the bank’s refusal to end its relationship with the NRA.

AFT began this week by calling on school pension fund managers to divest of holdings in manufacturers who make “assault weapons” and they are ending it by suggesting Wells Fargo is either for teachers or against them.

In a letter obtained by Breitbart News, AFT makes clear they are chiefly distancing themselves from Wells Fargo because of the bank’s refusal to cease doing business with the NRA.

AFT president President Randi Weingarten said:

Gun violence is an epidemic, but [Wells Fargo CEO] Tim Sloan won’t even engage in a conversation about mitigating it, much less take any real steps. We took him up on his offer to meet with us, then he went radio silent. So if Wells Fargo won’t value children and teachers above guns, we won’t do business with Wells Fargo. It can be the bank for America’s teachers, or it can be the bank for the NRA and gun manufacturers.

Weingarten suggested other companies have “engaged in meaningful conversations about what responsible relationships with gun companies look like, but Wells Fargo won’t.”

He concluded, “We’re ending this relationship [with Wells Fargo] because we have a responsibility to our members and their students, who face potential gun violence every day. Gun violence is a public health epidemic, and in order to help stop it, we’ll stop the flow of resources to the companies that manufacture these weapons that have caused so much civilian carnage and death.”

On April 15, 2018, Breitbart News reported that Well Fargo stemmed the tide of corporate gun control by refusing to place news restrictions and/or regulations on customers who work in the gun industry. This immediately set Wells Fargo apart from Citibank and Bank of America, both of which adopted gun control policies for their customers involved with firearms.Tokyo (AFP) – A firestorm in Japan over allegations of sexual harassment by the top finance ministry official is raising the possibility that the country could finally be having its “#MeToo moment”.

The international movement against sexual assault and harassment has brought down movie moguls, media stars and political figures across the world, even in patriarchal East Asia.

In China, the education ministry has declared a “zero tolerance” policy on harassment, and in South Korea a former presidential contender now faces rape charges.

But in Japan, with its deeply entrenched gender attitudes and one of the world’s worst records on female political representation, #MeToo’s impact has been limited — until now.

Junichi Fukuda fiercely denies that he sexually harassed female reporters, allegations first reported last week by a magazine that has released audio of what it says was one of the encounters.

He stepped down Wednesday, saying the scandal had left him unable to do his job, and has threatened to sue the magazine.

The story has dominated headlines domestically, a development some experts said was a sign the #MeToo movement might finally be taking hold.

“The global #MeToo movement probably encouraged women who had been suffering harassment to speak up, giving them a sense of assurance that they don’t have to tolerate it,” said Sumire Hamada of the Asia-Japan Women’s Resource Centre, a rights group.

But the episode has also laid bare how difficult it remains to report sexual harassment in Japan, and despite the apparent shift in mood, there is little immediate sign of tangible change.

One of the journalists who alleges Fukuda harassed her reported him to her boss at the local TV Asahi station but was told that going public would be too damaging, because her identity would be revealed.

And when the allegations against Fukuda first emerged, Finance Minister Taro Aso reacted dismissively, saying he had no plans to investigate.

He had verbally admonished Fukuda, he said, and considered him to be “sufficiently remorseful”.

– ‘Critical case’ –

Aso later reversed course, saying Fukuda would be fired if the claims were proven, and the ministry is now investigating.

But critics have questioned whether the ministry can investigate fairly, even though it has hired outside lawyers, and it has come under fire for asking reporters who have been harassed to come forward publicly.

“I hope that this case will not create bad pressure on victimised women to come out to the public with their identity being disclosed,” said Chizuko Ueno, a feminist sociologist and professor emeritus at the University of Tokyo.

More than 25,000 people have signed a petition demanding the ministry protect the rights of victims.

“This is a very critical case,” said Mari Miura, a professor of political science at Tokyo’s Sophia University and a specialist on gender issues.

“Many people have criticised the way in which the finance ministry intended to handle the situation… that’s why this incident might have a huge impact or the potential to change Japanese society.”

Activists say the country is ripe for change, with just 2.8 percent of rape victims reporting their assault to police, and society expecting “harassment victims to bear it silently”, said Hamada.

Last year, reporter Shiori Ito made headlines after publicly accusing a prominent television journalist of raping her.

She was savaged online and even received death threats, and her experience with authorities was not much better, she told AFP earlier this year.

Male police officers ordered her to re-enact her rape with a life-size doll, an experience she described as “like a second rape”.

– ‘Shameful’ –

Elsewhere in Asia, things have been different.

This month, former South Korean presidential contender Ahn Hee-Jung was indicted for raping his aide, and women have come forward to accuse artists, writers and athletes of sexual abuse.

And China’s education ministry announced a “zero tolerance” policy after a professor was found to have harassed multiple students.

The relative silence in Japan is all the more striking given Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s stated commitment to increasing women’s participation in the workforce.

His sole comment on the issue came Thursday, when he described the circumstances of Fukuda’s resignation as “regrettable” and pledged to restore trust in his government.

“It’s shameful that the two top leaders in Japan, the prime minister and the finance minister, do not understand the significance of sexual harassment cases,” said Miura.

She said she hoped local media would avoid “victim blaming”, noting that although TV Asahi now planned to complain to the finance ministry over the sexual harassment of its reporter, it had initially criticised her for going to the weekly magazine.

And she said other women might now feel empowered to share their experiences, as Seiko Noda, one of only two female cabinet ministers, did on Wednesday.

“When I was in my twenties, I experienced sexual harassment from some men while I was doing political activities,” Noda told a parliament session.

“It is so hard that you can’t easily tell your family or friends, not to mention your boss.”Wellington (AFP) – Wellington Hurricanes captain Brad Shields has asked New Zealand Rugby for permission to play for England in South Africa later this year, chief executive Steve Tew said Friday.

The highly-rated flanker is heading to Premiership side Wasps at the end of the Super Rugby season after giving up on All Black selection.

Kiwi-born but eligible for England through his parents, the 27-year-old was expected to feature in coach Eddie Jones’ plans for the 2019 World Cup.

But it appears Shields’ chance may come sooner than initially expected, with reports in Britain saying Jones wants him in the England squad to tour South Africa in June.

The England coach is attempting to get his side back to winning ways after an underwhelming defence of their Six Nations crown which saw them lose three successive matches.

Shields has led the Hurricanes to the top of the Super Rugby standings and his physical presence would be an asset for England against the Springboks.

However, his contract with the Hurricanes runs until the end of the Super Rugby season in August, meaning he needs permission from New Zealand Rugby.

“We’re looking at it and considering the ramifications of releasing him to play for England in the middle of a competition that he’s committed to,” Tew told reporters.

NZR would not normally be expected to do England any favours, particularly since the All Blacks will meet Jones’ team in November.

But Shields is a widely-respected figure in New Zealand — regarded by many as unlucky to miss All Black selection — and Tew said this would be considered in NZR’s deliberations.

“There’s no point not acknowledging that Brad’s been a very good servant of the game for a long period of time,” he said.

“He’s asked for some dispensation and we’ll give that serious consideration.”

If NZR refuse to release Shields, England could take the matter to arbitration before World Rugby.April 19 (UPI) — Berlin is set to hold a large-scale evacuation Friday to allow experts to defuse a 1,100-pound World War II explosive.

Buildings within a 2,625-foot radius from the German construction site where the British bomb was found will be evacuated beginning 9 a.m. local time as a precaution.

The evacuation area includes government ministries, a hospital and the city’s central train station.

Local bus and train routes will be disrupted during the operation, but the operator of Berlin’s Tegel Airport said Friday’s operations will proceed as scheduled.

“Good news: The originally coordinated Tegel flight plan for tomorrow can take place as planned,” the airport said.

The discovery of bombs from World War II are a common occurrence in Germany and police said there is no immediate danger for people in the area from the bomb.

About 65,000 residents in Frankfurt were evacuated in September as experts successfully defused an unexploded bomb.The U.S. State Department said on Thursday that it has “credible information” Russia and Syria are working together to keep inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) from visiting the site of the alleged chemical attack in Douma.

“We have credible information that indicates that Russian officials are working with the Syrian regime to deny and to delay these inspectors from gaining access to Douma,” State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said at a press briefing.

“Russian officials have worked with the Syrian regime to sanitize the locations of the suspected attacks and remove incriminating evidence of chemical weapons use,” Nauert charged.

Although Syrian state media reported that OPCW inspectors arrived at Douma on Tuesday, that proved to be true only in the most narrow technical sense; they were turned away from the attack sites by gunfire, explosives, and an angry mob.

The inspectors are presently awaiting approval from U.N. security before attempting another visit, with no announced timetable for when that might happen. The OPCW has made it clear the Russian military and Syrian government are responsible for the safety of the inspectors.Two residents in Glen St. Mary, Florida, turned the tide on seven home invasion suspects by opening fire with an AR-15 and a 9mm handgun.

One of the alleged suspects was killed, another hospitalized, and a third was treated and released to police.

News4Jax reports the incident occurred around 4 a.m. Sunday when the suspects kicked in the door, claiming to be from the sheriff’s office. Three residents were at home at the time, and two responded by opening fire. The resident with the AR-15 estimates he fired 30 rounds by himself.

Two suspects immediately “crumpled to the floor with multiple gunshot wounds.”

The residents then “retreated to another part of the home” and called 911.

One suspect, Corey Lauramore, died of gunshot wounds to his head and an unidentified 16-year-old was hospitalized in unknown condition. Officers found “a heavy amount of dried blood caked on the front steps of the home, a bloodstained mask with a bullet hole through it and a .380 caliber handgun lying nearby.”

Authorities believe a total of seven individuals went to the trailer Sunday morning. The five charged with home invasion are 24-year-old William Lauramore, 24-year-old Joseph Albino, 20-year-old Zachary Bell, 19-year-old Christian Watkins, and 15-year-old Cayden Lauramore.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.A poll on the U.S. Senate race in Arizona released Thursday shows that Dr. Kelli Ward has a nine point lead over her nearest rival for the Republican nomination, which will be determined in the August 28 primary.

Ward leads with 36 percent of the vote, followed by Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) with 27 percent, and former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio with 22 percent of the vote. Fifteen percent of the voters are undecided.

The poll of 302 likely Republican primary voters was conducted by OH Predictive Insights for ABC 15 Arizona over the two days between April 10 and April 11 and has a margin of error of 5.64 percent.

“Currently, Ward has an advantage of nine points over McSally where Ward’s approval comes from Donald Trump backers. Among those that said they had a very favorable opinion of President Trump, which was 49% of the total sample, Ward took 39% of those voters. Joe Arpaio received 30% of that vote while McSally only acquired 25%,” a statement from OH Predictive Insights/ABC 15 Arizona about the poll noted.

“As candidate’s scrap over who best takes that [Trump] mantle in the [Republican] primary, Kelli Ward is currently able to maximize that over any challenger, and concerns about winning the general may be bringing down Joe Arpaio’s vote. 55% of the likely GOP primary sample had a very or somewhat favorable opinion of Arpaio, but he is only capturing 22% of the GOP primary vote which raises some eyebrows,” the statement continued.

The same poll also looked at the general election contest in November for the Arizona Senate matching the presumptive Democratic nominee, Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) against each of the three leading Republican candidates in a survey of 600 likely voters (including the 302 likely Republican primary voters) that has a margin of error of four percent.

Sinema leads all three GOP candidates, with a six point lead over McSally, 48 percent to 42 percent, a ten point lead over Ward, 50 percent to 40 percent, and a 26 point lead over Arpaio, 59 percent to 33 percent.

According to the statement describing the poll, 74 percent of Independents have an unfavorable view of President Trump, while only 25 percent have a positive of view of him.

As a consequence, the poll shows that 64 percent of Independents support Sinema and 26 percent support McSally in a November general election matchup. Sixty-three percent of Independents support Sinema and 26 percent support Ward in a November general election matchup. Seventy-six percent of Independents support Sinema and 19 percent support Arpaio in a November general election matchup.

The results of the OH Predictive Insights/ABC 15 Arizona Poll for the Republican U.S. Senate primary differ significantly from the results of a Magellan Strategies Poll conducted on April 11, 12, and 15.

The Magellan Strategies Poll shows McSally in the lead with 36 percent of the vote, followed by Arpaio with 26 percent and Ward with 25 percent. The poll of “755 likely Republican primary voters in Arizona” was an “automated voice recorded survey” with a 3.57 percent margin of error.

According to the Magellan Strategies Poll:

The top three issues Republican primary voters want President Trump and Congress to address is enforcing immigration laws (33%), creating jobs and growing the economy (17%) and protecting Second Amendment rights (12%). Among Republican primary voters, 77% think Sen. John McCain should retire and only 19% think he should continue serving in the U.S. Senate.

One explanation for the differences between the OH Predictive/ABC Arizona 15 Poll and the Magellan Strategies Poll could be different geographic sampling within the state.

McSally, for instance, is very well known and popular in Pima County, which accounts for about 15 percent of the GOP primary electorate. Ward, in contrast, is very strong in rural Arizona, which accounts for about 25 percent of the GOP primary electorate.

The breakdown of OH Predictive/ABC Arizona 15 Poll GOP primary respondents was about 15 percent Pima County, 25 percent rural Arizona, and 60 percent the rest of the state. The crosstabs of the Magellan Strategies Poll did not include a geographic breakdown of poll respondents.Riyadh (AFP) – Four Saudi officers were shot dead and four others wounded Thursday when their checkpoint came under gunfire in southern Asir province, state media said citing the interior ministry.

Three officers were instantly killed when the outpost came under attack, the Saudi Press Agency reported, without specifying who was behind it.

“Security officials have succeeded in identifying a number of suspects involved in the crime and arrested two of them, both Saudi nationals,” SPA said.

“In the interest of the investigation, their names cannot be revealed.”

A third Saudi suspect opened fire as he tried to escape, killing another officer and wounding four others, SPA added.

The attack comes as Saudi Arabia is embroiled in a long running conflict in its southern neighbour Yemen, dubbed by the United Nations as the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.

In March 2015, the kingdom launched a coalition of Arab states fighting to roll back Iran-backed Huthi rebels in Yemen and restore the country’s internationally-recognised government to power.

Riyadh and Shiite rival Tehran back opposing sides in a range of hotspots across the mainly Sunni Muslim Middle East, including Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Yemen.

Since late 2014, the Islamic State group has claimed a series of bombings and shootings against Shiites and security forces in the Sunni-majority kingdom.

Saudi Arabia is a member of the US-led international coalition that has helped battle the Sunni extremist group in Syria and Iraq.

Last November, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman vowed to “pursue terrorists until they are wiped from the face of the earth” as he presided over the first meeting of an Islamic counter-terrorism alliance involving around 40 Muslim countries.Madrid (AFP) – Barcelona and Sevilla will know the success of their respective seasons is on the line when they go head to head in the Copa del Rey final on Saturday.

The Cup would certainly have been third on Barca’s list of priorities only a month ago, but the shattering Champions League defeat to Roma has altered perceptions of what might have otherwise have been a stellar campaign.

Unbeaten in La Liga and virtually certain to win the title, a domestic double may not be enough to remove the lingering disappointment from Rome, particularly if arch rivals Real Madrid clinch their third consecutive European crown.

“I live with a little anxiety,” Barca midfielder Philippe Coutinho said Thursday. “But it is a very important and very happy moment, playing a final only two or three months after arriving.”

Another surprise loss this weekend would certainly settle the argument, even if it seems strange to declare a team under pressure six days after they marked the longest unbeaten run in La Liga history.

In moulding his team around organisation, hard work and the irrepressible Lionel Messi, Barcelona coach Ernesto Valverde has steered this team away from the club’s more free-flowing, attacking traditions.

He has proven a master of extraction, drawing the very best from a squad that unexpectedly lost one of its star strikers in Neymar last summer, and owns far less talent than its predecessors.

Sevilla have fewer questions to answer in terms of entertaintment. Since Vincenzo Montella took charge in December, they have beaten Atletico Madrid, twice, Manchester United and drawn with Bayern Munich and Barcelona.

They have also conceded five goals at home to Real Betis and lost to minnows Alaves, Eibar and Leganes. In their draw against Barca, they shipped two goals in the 87th and 89th minutes.

“We know how they play, that they have quality and a fast counter-attack,” Coutinho said. “The most important thing is to think about ourselves, how we have to play and what we should do to win.”

Sitting seventh in the table and 17 points adrift of the top four, a trophy — particularly with a win over Barca — would diminish a disappointing league position and enhance their run to the Champions League quarter-finals. Lose, and there will be little left to cling onto.

“We have a great opportunity to win a title for the club,” Sevilla midfielder Pablo Sarabia said. “We have to think about the good things from this season.

“It is true we have not been consistent in the league but in the Champions League we have made history and in the cup we have the opportunity to lift a trophy.”

While Barca, the defending champions, are chasing their 30th Copa del Rey triumph in the Wanda Metropolitano stadium’s first tournament final, Sevilla are bidding to win their sixth, and first since 2010.

Barca fans are expected to jeer Spain’s national anthem before kick-off amid ongoing political unrest between Catalonia and the Spanish government.

“I’m not going to say anything,” Valverde said. “I just want the players to respect each other.”

Atletico Madrid, who remain 12 points behind Barca in second place after a chastening 3-0 defeat at Real Sociedad on Thursday, will look to make amends at home to fifth-placed Real Betis on Sunday while Celta Vigo and Valencia face off on Saturday.

Valencia sit three points behind Real Madrid, who will be using their well-timed weekend off to prepare for the first leg of Wednesday’s Champions League semi-final against Bayern Munich.

Fixtures (all times GMT)

Friday

Leganes v Deportivo La Coruna (2000)

Saturday

Eibar v Getafe (1200), Celta Vigo v Valencia (1515)

Sunday

Girona v Espanyol (1100), Malaga v Real Sociedad (1515), Las Palmas v Alaves (1730), Atletico Madrid v Real Betis, (1945)

Monday

Athletic Bilbao v Levante (2100)Los Angeles (AFP) – Lance Armstrong has agreed to pay $5 million in order to settle the looming federal fraud case stemming from his drug-fuelled reign as king of the Tour de France, it was confirmed on Thursday.

The former cycling superstar was due to face a trial next month over claims he defrauded the US government when he doped while racing for his United States Postal Service-sponsored team.

The Postal Service and former team-mate Floyd Landis had sought around $100 million in damages from Armstrong in the case, which was due to get under way on May 7.

However the prospect of a potentially ruinous judgement going against the cancer survivor was averted after Armstrong’s lawyers and the US Justice Department brokered a settlement.

“No one is above the law,” US Justice Department lawyer Chad Readler said in a statement announcing the deal. “This settlement demonstrates that those who cheat the government will be held accountable.”

Armstrong’s attorney Elliot Peters said in a statement the settlement “ends all litigation against Armstrong related to his 2013 admission that during his career as a professional cyclist he had used performance enhancing substances.”

The Washington Post reported Armstrong will also pay $1.65 million to cover the legal costs of former team-mate and whistleblower Landis. A further $1.1 million of the $5 million amount will go to Landis.

“I am glad to resolve this case and move forward with my life,” Armstrong, 46, said in a statement.

“I’m looking forward to devoting myself to the many great things in my life – my five kids, my wife, my podcast, several exciting writing and film projects, my work as a cancer survivor, and my passion for sports and competition. There is a lot to look forward to.”

– ‘Full responsibility’ –

Although Armstrong maintained the US Postal case was “without merit and unfair” he said he was pleased to have settled.

“I have since 2013 tried to take full responsibility for my mistakes, and make amends wherever possible,” he said, reflecting with pride on his performances in a US Postal jersey.

“I rode my heart out for the Postal cycling team, and was always especially proud to wear the red, white and blue eagle on my chest when competing in the Tour de France. Those memories are very real and mean a lot to me.”

Landis meanwhile told ESPN he was relieved not to have to confront Armstrong in a courtroom battle.

“I really didn’t want to relive it in a courtroom, and I don’t think Lance did either, and I don’t know that that would have really accomplished anything,” Landis said.

“Rather than going through that humiliation again, we’re better off. I mean, it was up to Lance, but I think he probably feels the same way.”

However the settlement was greeted with dismay by Betsy Andreu, the wife of former Armstrong team-mate Frankie Andreu. The Andreus were among the first to go on the record about Armstrong’s doping.

Betsy Andreu said the settlement amounted to Armstrong being let off the hook.

“My thought is a vengeful, unremorseful pathological liar was revealed and got a lifetime ban so all is not lost,” Andreu wrote on Facebook. “in the end he is who he is and money can’t buy class, respect or reputation.”

Armstrong’s personal fortune had been estimated at around $125 million in 2012.

But since his dramatic fall, he has lost lucrative sponsorship deals and in 2015 was ordered to pay back $10 million in bonus payments given to him by Dallas-based SCA Promotions relating to his Tour wins in 2002, 2003, and 2004.

The Washington Post reported he had recently listed his home in Austin, Texas for sale at $7.5 million.

The fallen US cycling star had battled back from cancer to win cycling’s most prestigious race, the Tour de France, a record seven consecutive times between 1999 and 2005.

Although rumours of drug use swirled around Armstrong throughout his career, he never failed a test.

However his reputation imploded when the United States Anti-Doping Agency wrapped up an investigation which concluded he had been at the heart of a sophisticated doping program throughout his career.

Armstrong later confessed to using performance-enhancing drugs and was banned from all competitions for life and stripped of his seven Tour titles.Kuala Lumpur (AFP) – Inflammatory stories masquerading as real news pose a particularly toxic threat in Asian countries with long-standing religious and ethnic divides, but promises by some regional leaders to tackle the problem carry equal menace.

Borrowing from US President Donald Trump’s political playbook, government heads with an authoritarian streak are using the mantra of “fake news” to shield themselves from negative media coverage, and push legislation that critics say is aimed more at stifling dissent than punishing fabrication.

The problem they profess to be addressing is a genuine one.

Internet penetration is now so extensive — even in the poorest areas — that fake stories dressed up as fact can go viral on social media overnight and reach massive audiences with often dire consequences.

In India last year, seven people were killed by a mob after a false story spread on WhatsApp that they were child-traffickers, while in Myanmar, doctored photos and bogus reports shared on Facebook have fuelled the persecution of Rohingya Muslims.

A number of Asian leaders have tapped into the resulting public concern and launched campaigns that claim to target malign rumour-mongers but, experts say, actually serve to turn the screws on critical media and political opponents.

“This vague notion of ‘fake news’, which has been used and abused by US President Donald Trump, is a boon for governments who want to muzzle overcurious independent voices,” Daniel Bastard, head of the Asia-Pacific desk at Reporters Without Borders (RSF), told AFP.

Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte — who once memorably warned media that “just because you’re a journalist, you’re not exempted from assassination” — has regularly accused news outlets critical of his deadly war on drugs of peddling fake news.

He has openly attacked a top newspaper and broadcaster, while the biggest target of the media clampdown has been news website Rappler.

Philippine authorities have cancelled its corporate licence over claims the outlet violated foreign ownership laws and filed a criminal complaint over an alleged failure to pay taxes on bonds it issued.

– Pushing legislation –

In Cambodia, authoritarian Prime Minister Hun Sen has openly praised Trump’s “Fake News Awards” — handed out in January by the president to his usual targets, including CNN and The New York Times — and lobbed the “fake news” charge at his own media critics.

It has helped provide ammunition for his government’s sweeping assault on independent media in recent months, with the widely-respected Cambodia Daily newspaper shuttered after being hit with a huge tax bill and dozens of independent radio stations closed.

Some countries are seeking to legislate against fake news, sparking concerns that the laws will be used to stifle dissent.

Malaysia enacted a law this month that punishes publishers of false reports with up to six years in jail, which observers say is a clear bid to stifle criticism of scandal-hit Prime Minister Najib Razak before elections next month.

Singapore has been holding parliamentary hearings to consider measures, including laws, against what the government terms “deliberate online falsehoods” while the Philippines is considering legislation that could see publishers of fake news punished with up to 20 years in jail.

Clarissa David, a media expert at University of the Philippines, warned that any such law in the Philippines may become “a tool for censorship” that could be used to “silence legitimate news organisations from covering stories that are unfavourable to groups in power”.

Michael Vatikiotis, a Southeast Asia expert, said that legislating against fake news “puts journalists in deeper peril”.

“Unlike normal justifications for curbing media freedom, fake news is a broad, catch-all definition that is wholly subjective,” Vatikiotis, an author and former journalist, told AFP.

– Alarm in Europe –

Still, fake news is undoubtedly a real threat and has sparked particular alarm in Europe where governments are worried that Russia may try to meddle in elections, following allegations that Moscow sought to tilt the 2016 US poll in Trump’s favour.

Germany has passed a law threatening social networks with fines if they do not remove bogus reports and hate speech while Brussels is working on a Europe-wide plan to tackle fake news online.

But media rights groups are against legislation, arguing instead for the press to follow a strict set of standards they set themselves, and for social media giants such as Facebook to come up with responsible policies to stem the flood of misleading information.

RSF’s Bastard warned that the idea of social media companies policing themselves could pose as many problems as governments passing laws, however.

“Will (Facebook CEO) Mark Zuckerberg decide what is ‘real’ or ‘fake’?” he said.

“Just as we have big reservations when states want to control the ‘realness’ of news through legislation, we don’t want corporations to decide it without any transparency.”

burs-sr/aph/qan/gle/qanHouse Speaker Paul Ryan is rejecting the growing inside pressure for him to allow a new leadership team who can guide the GOP’s House caucus through the difficult 2018 elections.

In a Thursday interview with radio host Hugh Hewitt, Ryan showed that he does not want to quit the leadership post soon, even though he has announced he will resign after the election. Instead of leaving, Ryan said he plans to “run through the tape” while pushing his 2016 priorities — not President Donald Trump’s election-winning 2016 priorities:

That’s what I mean [by] ‘Running through the tape’ – finishing the agenda we ran on in ’16. We’ve done the rebuild of the military. We’ve done the tax reform. We’ve done enormous amounts of regulatory relief. We’ve done a lot of our poverty work with enterprise zones and the rest. So finish the job on regulatory relief and go work on workforce development, getting people off of welfare, into the workforce, in a good career, vocational or technical education, and let the states be flexible and experiment … I’m focused on keeping our majority. I’m focused on campaigning with our members. And I’m focusing on finishing this agenda.

But that establishment agenda won’t help the GOP in November, argues Mark Krikorian, director of the Center for Immigration Studies.

“What Ryan is saying is that he is going to run on an establishment Marco Rubio/Jeb Bush agenda when the whole lesson of the 2016 primaries and the general election is that Republican voters don’t want the standard agenda,” he said, adding:

Repeating the same establishment pieties is not going to excite Republican voters to counter the certain increase in turnout by the left … They’re energized and in effect, will try to vote for Hillary [Clinton]. The only way to counteract that is by energizing Republican Party voters and entitlement reform will not do that. Immigration is one thing that will do that. Obviously, issues like border security and the migration caravan do get attention, but they are not pocketbook issues, whereas issues such as ever-more H-1Bs and H-2B do hit people’s pocketbooks. You need a coherent immigration message which puts emphasis on security and enforcement together with jobs and wages.

House GOP sources say a post-Ryan leadership team may combine Rep. Kevin McCarthy, who is now Majority Leader, Rep. Steve Scalie, now the House whip, Rep. Mark Meadows, the chairman of the House Freedom Caucus, and Ohio’s Rep. Jim Jordan, a leading conservative.

Ryan, however, is resisting the pressure to exit. On April 12, for example, he reportedly leaned on Rep. Tom Graves who is pushing for a quick transition. According to the Washington Post:

Ryan reiterated Friday that any leadership election would wait until after the November elections, and his endorsement [of McCarthy] came hours after Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), a prominent and polarizing conservative, acknowledged that he is considering a challenge to McCarthy — sending an emphatic signal that the Californian will not have a cakewalk. “There is no speaker’s race right now. Paul Ryan is the speaker,” Jordan said Friday. “If and when there is, I’ve been urged by colleagues to consider that, and I am definitely open to that. Right now, though, the focus has got to be on the next six months, us keeping the majority.” … Several Republican lawmakers said Friday that, barring an unlikely deal between McCarthy and the conservative bloc, Jordan’s run all but ensures that the leadership elections will be put off until November. Ryan has personally interceded to tamp down an effort to accelerate his departure and hold earlier elections, meeting Thursday with Rep. Tom Graves (R-Ga.), a McCarthy ally who had been pushing colleagues for a swift transition.

“As long as Ryan is Speaker of the House, the Republican Party is not likely to put together an employee-oriented agenda that includes tightening up on immigration,” said Krikorian. He continued:

“Ther’s nothing wrong with employers, but they got a big tax cut and they are getting regulaitons reduced. I’m all for that, but cutting back unskilled immigration and the visa[-worker] categories is a necessary balance because it likely to benefit ordinary employees rather than business … The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.A study commissioned by the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission warns that the U.S. federal government is highly vulnerable to espionage or cyber attack due to its dependence on Chinese electronics and computer software.

The study concerns “supply chain risk management,” which essentially means making the U.S. government less dependent on cheap electronic products from potentially hostile countries.

“The supply chain threat to U.S. national security stems from products produced, manufactured, or assembled by entities that owned, directed, or subsidized by national governments or entities known to pose a potential supply chain or intelligence threat to the United States, including China,” as the report puts it.

Such products could be modified to perform poorly, create security vulnerabilities for foreign intelligence and espionage teams, or compromise the security of federal information technology systems in a variety of ways. The report anticipates the threat will become much worse with the adoption of new networking technology such as the ultra-high-speed 5G mobile network and “Internet of Things” smart devices.

The report notes that China achieved its key position in the information and communications technology supply chain very deliberately, as a matter of state national security policy, strong-arming and looting foreign companies to obtain the technology it desired.

“New policies requiring companies to surrender source code, store data on servers based in China, invest in Chinese companies, and allow the Chinese government to conduct security audits on their products open federal ICT providers – and the federal ICT networks they supply – to Chinese cyber espionage efforts and intellectual property theft,” cautions the report.

“China also continues to target U.S. government contractors and other private sector entities as part of its efforts to gain economic advantage and pursue other state goals,” it adds.

The report notes that tracing the supply line for electronic components is very difficult, as components can flow across national borders during various stages of production. Completed electronic items can then bounce between distribution centers in different countries before landing in retail stores or arriving at government IT departments. Every link in these incredibly complex supply chains could introduce security vulnerabilities, or become a pressure point for an aggressor like China seeking to interrupt the U.S. supply of essential information technology.

To put this advisory another way, if China has deliberately created security vulnerabilities in some electronic components, there is almost no way to tell which devices will be at risk of security penetration or orchestrated failure on the day Beijing decides to exploit those vulnerabilities. On a less apocalyptic scale, China can exert tremendous influence over foreign companies by threatening to shut down their supply of essential components.

In a grim twist, the report notes that China used the disclosure of classified American documents by Edward Snowden in 2013 to argue that American technology firms were sinister agents of influence that had “seamlessly penetrated” Chinese society. These allegations were then used as an excuse to bully American tech companies and develop the supply chain influence that makes China such a threat to U.S. information security today.

China is not just using draconian regulations to hamper foreign competition, steal their trade secrets, and give Chinese firms a competitive advantage. China’s regulations force American companies to “surrender source code, proprietary business information, and security information to the Chinese government,” which makes them vulnerable to “Chinese cyber espionage efforts.”

This vulnerability is not purely theoretical. The report recalls that 34 U.S. companies were hit by Chinese cyber attacks in 2010 that appear to have exploited flaws in the Microsoft Internet Explorer, whose source code was surrendered to the Chinese government in 2003. The 2010 attack wave was, in turn, designed to steal source code from the targeted companies.

Since those very same companies are major providers to the U.S. federal government, those vulnerabilities are passed along to Uncle Sam like a contagious disease. The companies attacked in 2010 included Google, Adobe, Yahoo, and Northrop Grumman, all major providers to the federal government.

The report is not exclusively focused on China. One section discusses Russia-based cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Labs, whose products the U.S. government banned after ties were discovered between the company and Russian intelligence, and Kaspersky anti-virus software was exploited by the Russian government to steal data from an NSA contractor’s computer. Government-connected firms in Israel are more vaguely described as a potential danger to the information technology supply chain.

As for recommendations moving forward, the report somewhat glumly concedes that changing the information technology supply chain is basically impossible at this point, so the U.S. government is best advised to centralize risk management efforts, demand greater transparency from providers, do what it can to reduce dependency on problematic sources like China, clean up the “conflicting and confusing laws and regulations” currently governing risk management, and use the appropriations process to ensure that only projects with high-security standards are funded.

“They are doing it. We’re not even making it difficult right now,” chief executive Jennifer Bisceglie of study authors Interos Solutions told the Washington Post, referring to Chinese efforts to “seed U.S. government offices with spyware and electronic back doors.”

“The problem is growing in magnitude. We don’t have a plan to address China’s increasing role on the world stage and its plan to dominate ICT,” Michael Wessel of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission added.

To be brutally honest, the recommendations at the end of the Interos Solutions study do not seem equal to the magnitude of the dangers described in the preceding pages. If China secures the dominant position it desires in next-generation technologies like 5G wireless and artificial intelligence, there might never be a way to reach an acceptable level of data security and supply chain protection.Tampa (AFP) – SpaceX was poised Wednesday to try again to blast off NASA’s newest planet-hunting spacecraft after a two-day delay to check out the Falcon 9 rocket’s navigation systems.

The $337 million Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, or TESS, aims to search for planets where life may exist by scanning 85 percent of the skies for planets beyond the solar system, known as exoplanets.

“All systems and weather are go for Falcon 9’s launch of @NASA_TESS today at 6:51 pm (2251 GMT),” SpaceX said on Twitter.

The initial attempt Monday was scrubbed about two hours before planned takeoff from a NASA pad at Cape Canaveral, Florida.

The washing machine-sized spacecraft is built to search the nearest, brightest stars for signs of periodic dimming. These so-called “transits” may mean that planets are in orbit around them.

TESS is expected to reveal 20,000 planets beyond our solar system, including more than 50 Earth-sized planets and up to 500 planets less than twice the size of the Earth, NASA said.

Its discoveries will be studied further by ground- and space-based telescopes for signs of habitability, including a rocky terrain, a size similar to Earth and a distance from their sun — neither too close nor too far — that allows the right temperature for liquid water.

TESS will survey far more cosmic terrain than its predecessor, NASA’s Kepler Space Telescope, which launched in 2009.Berlin (AFP) – The planned disposal of an unexploded World War II bomb Friday will force a mass evacuation around Berlin’s central railway station and likely spark transport chaos in the German capital.

Trains, trams, buses and even some flights at the city’s Tegel airport will be halted when a police bomb squad starts defusing the British 500-kilogramme (1,100-pound) bomb unearthed on a building site.

Authorities have declared an exclusion zone with an 800 metre (875 yards) radius around the site located just north of the central railway station, a transport hub that on a normal day is used by 300,000 passengers.

The exclusion zone covers the train station, an army hospital, the economy ministry, an art gallery and a museum as well as part of the BND intelligence service’s new headquarters.

Many thousands of residents and employees will have to stay clear of, or leave the area by 9:00 am local time (0700 GMT), and not return until the bomb is safely defused.

Angela Merkel’s chancellery building and the Reichstag (parliament) lie just a few hundred metres to the south of the no-go zone and therefore can keep operating as usual.

More than 70 years after the end of the war, unexploded bombs are regularly found, a potentially deadly legacy of the intense Allied bombing campaign against Nazi Germany.

Some 3,000 are believed to still lie buried in Berlin, a city of three million people, where bomb disposal squads are well-practiced in defusing them and other ordnance.

It was unclear how long the bomb disposal squad would take to disable the bomb found during construction work on Heidestrasse in the district of Mitte.

“It depends on how long the evacuation takes and of course the condition of the bomb,” police spokesman Martin Halweg told the Tagesspiegel daily.

Police, who issued the warning Wednesday, have asked residents to stay with family or friends or head to one of two emergency shelters set up at nearby schools.

They said the bomb was “safe for now”, reassuring nearby residents that “there is no immediate danger”.

Urban transport operators prepared for large-scale disruptions around the central hub.

Trains will run straight through the central railway station without stopping from 0800 GMT, and all rail traffic there will cease from 0930 GMT, said operator Deutsche Bahn.MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — Some of Prince’s closest confidants had grown increasingly alarmed about his health in the days before he died and tried to get him help as they realized he had an opioid addiction — yet none were able to give investigators the insight they needed to determine where the musician got the fentanyl that killed him, according to investigative documents released Thursday.

Just ahead of this weekend’s two-year anniversary of Prince’s death, prosecutors announced they would file no criminal charges in the case and the state investigation was closed.

“My focus was lasered in on trying to find out who provided that fentanyl, and we just don’t know where he got it,” said Carver County Attorney Mark Metz. “We may never know. … It’s pretty clear from the evidence that he did not know, and the people around him didn’t know, that he was taking fentanyl.”

Metz said Prince had suffered from pain for years and likely believed he was taking a common painkiller.

Prince was 57 when he was found alone and unresponsive in an elevator at his Paisley Park studio compound on April 21, 2016. His death sparked a national outpouring of grief and prompted a joint investigation by Carver County and federal authorities.

An autopsy found he died of an accidental overdose of fentanyl, a synthetic opioid 50 times more powerful than heroin.

The investigative materials — including documents , photos and videos — were posted online Thursday afternoon. Several images show the music superstar’s body on the floor of his Paisley Park estate, near an elevator. He is on his back, his head on the floor, eyes closed. His right hand is on his stomach and left arm on the floor.

The documents include interviews with Prince’s inner circle. That included longtime friend and bodyguard Kirk Johnson, who told investigators that he had noticed Prince “looking just a little frail,” but said he did not realize he had an opioid addiction until he passed out on a plane a week before he died.

“It started to all making sense though, just his behavior sometimes and change of mood and I’m like oh this is what, I think this is what’s going on, that’s why I took the initiative and said let’s go to my doctor because you haven’t been to the doctor, let’s check it all out,” Johnson said, according to a transcript of an interview with investigators.

Johnson said after that episode, Prince canceled some concerts as friends urged him to rest. Johnson also said that Prince “said he wanted to talk to somebody” about his addiction.

Johnson asked his own doctor, Michael Todd Schulenberg, to see Prince on April 7, 2016. Schulenberg told authorities he gave Prince an IV; authorities said he also prescribed Vitamin D and a nausea medication — under Johnson’s name. Johnson then called Schulenberg on April 14, asking the doctor to prescribe a pain medication for Prince’s hip. Schulenberg did so, again under Johnson’s name, Metz said.

On the night of April 14 to April 15, Prince passed out on a flight home from Atlanta, and the private plane made an emergency stop in Moline, Illinois. The musician had to be revived with two doses of a drug that reverses effects of an opioid overdose.

A paramedic told a police detective that after the second shot of naloxone, Prince “took a large gasp and woke up,” according to the investigative documents. He said Prince told paramedics, “I feel all fuzzy.”

A nurse at the hospital where Prince was taken for monitoring told detectives that he refused routine overdose testing that would have included blood and urine tests. When asked what he had taken, he didn’t say what it was, but that “someone gave it to him to relax.” Other documents say Prince said he took one or two pills.

The documents show that Johnson contacted Schulenberg again on April 18, and expressed concern that Prince was struggling with opioids. At that time, Schulenberg told investigators, Johnson apologized for asking the doctor to prescribe the previous painkiller.

An assistant to Prince told investigators that he had been unusually quiet and sick with the flu in the days before he was found dead. Meron Bekure said she last saw Prince a day earlier, when she was going to take him to the doctor for a checkup but that Prince told her he would go with Johnson instead.

On that day, Schulenberg saw Prince and ran some tests and prescribed other medications to help him. A urinalysis came back positive for opioids. That same day, Paisley Park staffers contacted California addiction specialist Dr. Howard Kornfeld. The doctor sent his son, Andrew, to Minnesota that night, and the younger Kornfeld was among those who found Prince’s body. Andrew Kornfeld was carrying buprenorphine, a medication that can be used to help treat opioid addiction.

Andrew Kornfeld told investigators that Prince was still warm to the touch when he was found, but that rigor mortis had begun to set in.

The documents also show that Prince’s closest confidants knew he was a private person and tried to respect that, with Johnson saying: “That’s what pisses me off cause it’s like man, how did he hide this so well?”

Metz said some of Prince’s friends might have enabled him as they tried to protect him.

“There is no doubt that the actions of individuals will be criticized, questioned and judged in the days and weeks to come,” Metz said. “But suspicions and innuendo are categorically insufficient to support any criminal charges.”

The U.S. attorney’s office also said Thursday it had no credible evidence that would lead to federal criminal charges. A law enforcement official close to the investigation told The Associated Press that the federal investigation is now inactive unless new information emerges. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the federal case remains open.

But federal authorities announced that Schulenberg had agreed to pay $30,000 to settle a civil violation from the allegation that he illegally prescribed the opioid oxycodone for Prince in Johnson’s name. Schulenberg admitted to no facts or liability in the settlement, which includes stricter monitoring of his prescribing practices, and authorities said he is not the target of a criminal investigation.

Oxycodone, the generic name for the active ingredient in OxyContin, was not listed as a cause of Prince’s death. But it is part of a family of painkillers driving the nation’s addiction and overdose epidemic, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Nearly 2 million Americans abused or were addicted to prescription opioids, including oxycodone, in 2014.

A confidential toxicology report obtained by the AP in March showed high concentrations of fentanyl in the singer’s blood, liver and stomach. The concentration of fentanyl in Prince’s blood alone was 67.8 micrograms per liter, which outside experts called “exceedingly high.”

Prince did not have a prescription for fentanyl.

Metz said several pills were found at the Paisley Park complex after Prince died, and some were later determined to be counterfeit.

The underground market for counterfeit prescription pain pills is brisk and can be highly anonymous, said Carol Falkowski, CEO of Drug Abuse Dialogues, a Minnesota-based drug abuse training and consulting organization. Buyers often don’t know who they’re dealing with or what’s in the drugs they purchase, she said.

The likelihood of people buying pain pills on the street or online that turn out to be counterfeits laced with fentanyl is “extremely high,” said Traci Green, a Boston University Medical Center epidemiologist who focuses on the opioid epidemic.

___

Associated Press writers Steve Karnowski and Doug Glass in Minneapolis, Ryan J. Foley in Des Moines, Iowa, and Tammy Webber in Chicago contributed this report.

___

Follow Amy Forliti on Twitter: http://www.twitter.com . More of her work at: https://apnews.com/search/amy%20forliti .SUNRISE, Fla., April 19 (UPI) — Since figure skater Adam Rippon’s show-stealing Olympic performance, his celebrity has only snowballed, with appearances on talk shows, YouTube specials, magazine covers and even the Oscars red carpet. On Thursday, he was named to Time’s 100 Most Influential People of 2018.

In a recent interview with UPI, Rippon talked about his favorite Olympic moments, the highlights of post-season life and how he dealt with a public political spat on the eve of competition.

Olympic moments

Rippon skated three clean programs at the Pyeongchang Winter Games, but the moments he spent with teammates are the memories he cherishes most, including the pageantry of the opening ceremonies.

“It was everything I wanted it to be,”‘ he said in a rinkside interview in Florida as he toured with the Stars on Ice show. “It was just as crazy and just as emotional as I thought.”

Rippon was among several skaters competing in the team event, including his close friend, Mirai Nagasu, who became the first U.S. woman to land a triple axel on Olympic ice. Rippon was watching from the sideline.

“My favorite moment to watch was watching Mirai skate so well right after I had skated a clean program myself,” he said. “Four years ago, Mirai and I were sitting out and for her to skate like that and for us to get that medal together was so cool.”

Rippon and Nagasu didn’t make the 2014 Olympic team. While their peers competed in Sochi, Russia, they spent a night on the roof with an In-N-Out comfort food fest. So 2018 was a story of redemption for both skaters, who finished in the top 10 of their divisions.

Rippon also bonded with a Team USA member off the ice in Pyeongchang. Skier Gus Kensworthy and Rippon were the two first openly gay Olympians to compete for the United States.

“We’ve told each other that I’ll teach him how to skate and he’ll teach me how to ski because I’ve never been skiing before,” Rippon said.

Staying focused

Kensworthy stayed a little further from the spotlight as Rippon was involved in a social media controversy with Vice President Mike Pence, who led the U.S. Olympic delegation, over gay rights.

Rippon’s key to staying focused on training during the drama was to keep his head down — and ignore the Internet.

“I just went in every day and worked as hard as I could,” he said. “When I started getting asked these questions about Mike Pence and whatever, yes, I was getting a lot of attention I wasn’t necessarily expecting from Donald Trump Jr. and from Mike Pence himself.

“It can be a lot, but then I remembered that the only way I’m hearing about it is on my phone, so I put my phone in my bag, and I said you know what, I’ll look at it in like two hours. I imagined the whole world was just in my phone and I put it down and what was around me was the only thing that mattered.”

Post-Olympics

Rippon has had many gold medal moments after the closing ceremony, as well. His favorite so far took place on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert, when he got to meet Reese Witherspoon.

“She went backstage and she met my family. She didn’t have to do that, she was late for a premiere, but she did that while I was taping and by the time I got back, she was gone. She didn’t have to do any of that.”

Rippon is touring the United States with the Stars on Ice show through May. Next he’ll appear in the upcoming season of Dancing With the Stars, which premieres April 30.Comey: McCabe had authority to speak to press but did not consult me, which I would have expected pic.twitter.com/aQIseJeV9u

"There's certainly been an organized campaign to target me. There was definitely an organized campaign to attack Andrew McCabe, and urge his firing, tear down his reputation, attack his wife– just shameful attacks from the President directly." – Comey tells @maddow pic.twitter.com/pnlEbwvyK4

On Thursday’s broadcast of MSNBC’s “Rachel Maddow Show,” former FBI Director James Comey said that former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe did have the authority to speak to the media, but that the IG report is correct in its assessment that McCabe didn’t ask Comey before talking to the press.

Comey said that there was “an organized campaign to attack Andy McCabe, and urge his firing, tear down his reputation, attack his wife, just shameful attacks from the president directly.”

After the discussion turned to the IG report on McCabe and McCabe speaking to the media, Comey stated, “Andy had the authority to speak to the media and to authorize communications with the media.”

Anchor Rachel Maddow then asked, “Do you think he improperly spoke to the media in that capacity then?”

Comey answered, “I don’t know for sure. I know that he didn’t tell me about it, didn’t ask me about it before he did it. I think the inspector general’s report is right in that respect. And I would have expected that. But I think he had the authority to do that, and I think if he were here he might say, ‘Well, I didn’t need to talk to the boss because I had the authority to do that.’ And that’s a hard one. Because, given all that was going on at that point and time, I would have expected him to talk to me. But, I think, as a matter of rule, he had the authority.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettThen-FBI director James Comey told President Donald Trump last January that former Attorney General Eric Holder was “smarter” than his successor, Loretta Lynch.

The comment was preserved in one of the memoranda that Comey wrote about his conversations with the president before he was fired — and whose contents he leaked, selectively, to the media via a New York University law professor who is now his attorney.

In a memorandum dated January 28, 2017, Comey recalls an extensive conversation with the president over dinner. When Trump asked him to compare Holder and Lynch, Comey notes, “I said I thought AG Holder was smarter and more sophisticated and smoother than AG Lynch, who I added is a good person.”

That memorandum also recalls a now-infamous exchange that was leaked to the media in which Trump allegedly told Comey “that he needed loyalty and expected loyalty.”

The memoranda were provided to Congress on Thursday by the Department of Justice. Reactions were predictably partisan, with Democrats claiming the memos corroborated Comey’s earlier statements about Trump, and Republicans claiming the memos show Comey never felt Trump was trying to obstruct justice.

House Oversight Ranking Member Rep Cummings Issues Statement on Production of Comey Memos to Congress —> pic.twitter.com/QVxARRqTKX — Alex Moe (@AlexNBCNews) April 20, 2018

Joint Nunes, Gowdy, Goodlatte stmt says Comey memos “show former Director Comey never wrote that he felt obstructed or threatened.” pic.twitter.com/9Y2UC49xz3 — Frank Thorp V (@frankthorp) April 20, 2018

Comey told Congress last year that he leaked the content of the memos after he was fired with the explicit intent of triggering the appointment of a special counsel to investigate the president’s 2016 campaign.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.Executive Director of the English language advocacy group ProEnglish Stephen Guschov says his organization has “had five meetings at the White House in recent weeks and months” urging President Donald Trump to repeal Bill Clinton’s Executive Order 13166, which sought to accommodate “persons with limited English proficiency.”

Signed by Clinton in the final days of his administration, the executive order requires recipients of federal funding — including public hospitals and schools — to provide costly foreign language translation services.

LISTEN:

“They must provide interpreters or translators for any non-English people and they must pay for it themselves,” Guschov told Breitbart News Deputy Political Editor Amanda House on Breitbart News Daily. “Well, obviously, that cost is being passed on to taxpayers, to U.S. citizens.”

“A study by the Office of Management and Budget during the first term of the Bush administration estimated these additional translation costs amounted to over $2 billion a year for the taxpayer,” Guschov wrote in an opinion piece published by the Washington Times. “This OMB study is a dozen years old now, and the costs have obviously skyrocketed.”

A 2015 study conducted by the Center for Immigration Studies found that there are now nearly 65 million U.S. residents who speak a foreign language at home, creating immense pressure on local hospitals, schools, and other public services to provide translation services.

In California alone, the non-English-speaking population is approaching 50 percent, while 35 percent of Texas’s residents and 34 percent of New Mexico’s speak a foreign language at home.

Of the nearly 65 million foreign-speaking U.S. residents, Migration Policy Institute research shows that more than 25 million were “limited” in English proficiency – a number equal to almost half of the entire U.S. immigrant population. The number of foreign nationals lacking English proficiency has more than doubled since the 1980s, according to this research.

“We’ve actually had five meetings at the White House in recent weeks and months with different aides to President Trump and Vice President Pence, and we have really urged them to sign a new executive order repealing Clinton’s executive order,” Guschov told House.

Guschov also stressed his organization’s existential goal: having English declared America’s official language. ProEnglish is urging the GOP-controlled Congress to pass the English Language Unity Act – the latest iteration of a series of bills introduced periodically since the late 1990s. In the past, these bills attracted significant conservative support, including that of then-Congressman Mike Pence. This Congress’s version was introduced by Rep. Steve King (R-IA) and currently has more than 60 Republican co-sponsors.

Guschov emphasized the assimilative benefits to immigrants of passing such a bill. “If an immigrant comes to this nation and they are immersed in English and proficient in English and English is the official language of all governmental operations here, then actually that’s something that is going to be helpful for immigrants,” he told House.

“A lot of our opponents say, ‘Oh, you are not compassionate at all. You’re anti-immigrant.’ No, just the opposite. We are very compassionate. Because if someone must learn English, must become proficient in it, then they are going to prosper in this nation.”

They’re going to have better job opportunities, better professional opportunities, they are going to be able to make more money, be able to provide better for their family. So what we are doing, by advocating for official English is something very compassionate for all immigrants coming to this nation.

“We don’t want to see America become a new Tower of Babel,” Guschov pressed. “And what we are proposing … is nothing that is rare or outlandish or not done around the world.”

Right now about 85 percent of member nations of the United Nations have an official language. And there are approximately 53 countries around the world right now that are United Nations member nations that have English as an official language. But the United States doesn’t. It’s crazy.

Guschov emphasized that this push to make English the official language in the U.S. is for government operations only. “People are free to speak whatever language they want in their house, in their church, in their place of faith, in their community center, wherever they want. Knock yourself out in that regard,” he said.

“We are not saying people should not be able to speak their own language privately or that they would be prohibited from celebrating their ethnicity. Nothing at all like that.”

Guschov says it is legal immigrants who understand this issue the most. “They’re the ones that say to us here at ProEnglish all the time: ‘Steve, we get it … If you are coming to America, coming here legally, it’s a no-brainer that you have to learn English.'”

President Trump has voiced his support for speaking English in America on several occasions.

Breitbart News Daily airs on SiriusXM Patriot channel 125 weekdays from 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Eastern.Ipoh (Malaysia) (AFP) – A Malaysian shaman who drew widespread ridicule by trying to locate flight MH370 using coconuts and a “magic” carpet announced Tuesday he will run in elections next month.

Ibrahim Mat Zin — known by his nickname “Raja Bomoh”, which translates as “King of Shamans” — will contest a parliamentary seat in northern Perak state as an independent candidate.

After Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared in 2014 with 239 people aboard, Ibrahim launched a bizarre attempt to find the jet at Kuala Lumpur International Airport, from where it had set out.

He conducted a series of rituals, one involving bamboo binoculars and another using two coconuts and what he described as a magic carpet, which he claimed could weaken the “spirits” that were holding the missing plane.

Despite his best efforts — and a major multinational search in the Indian Ocean, that was the most expensive in aviation history — the Boeing jet remains missing.

Announcing his candidacy in the city of Ipoh, the 68-year-old recounted how he “just held up two coconuts and became an instant global star.

“I am contesting for the sake of the people. I will help the people with financial support from my salary if I win.”

But he is likely to find as little success in politics as he did in his ill-fated hunt for MH370 — he is running against Deputy Prime Minister Zahid Hamidi, one of the most powerful figures in government.

Following the assassination of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s brother at Kuala Lumpur airport last year, Ibrahim conducted a ritual on a beach, supposedly to protect Malaysia from any attack launched by Pyongyang.

Authorities were disturbed enough by his antics to briefly detain him.

The May 9 poll will be a tough test for Prime Minister Najib Razak’s coalition, which has governed Malaysia for six decades.

Najib has been battling allegations huge sums were looted from state fund 1MDB, and also faces a tough challenge from veteran ex-leader Mahathir Mohamad, 92, who is the opposition’s prime ministerial candidate.

Najib and 1MDB deny any wrongdoing.Mbabane (Swaziland) (AFP) – The king of Swaziland, one of the world’s few absolute monarchs, announced on Thursday that his country had changed its name to eSwatini to mark 50 years since independence from British rule.

Meaning “place of the Swazi”, eSwatini is the Swazi language name for the tiny nation landlocked between South Africa and Mozambique.

Unlike some countries, Swaziland did not change its name when it gained independence in 1968 after being a British protectorate for more than 60 years.

King Mswati III declared the name change during independence day celebrations at a packed sports stadium in the second city of Manzini.

“I would like to announce that Swaziland will now revert to its original name,” he said, wearing red military uniform.

“African countries on getting independence reverted to their ancient names before they were colonised. So from now on the country will be officially be known as the Kingdom of eSwatini.”

The name Swaziland angers some citizens as it is a mix of Swazi and English.

The move has been mooted for several years, with lawmakers considering the issue in 2015. Mswati III has used the new name in previous official speeches.

The king, who was crowned in 1986 aged 18, rules by decree and has often been criticised for his lavish lifestyle despite the grinding poverty suffered by many of his citizens.

Political parties are banned from taking part in elections and only candidates approved by chiefs loyal to the king can stand for office.

The country, which has a population of about 1.3 million people, suffers the highest HIV rate in the world, with 27 percent of adults infected.

The name change could mean that the country’s constitution is re-written, as well as changes for the Royal Swaziland Police Force, the Swaziland Defence Force and the University of Swaziland.

After independence, Rhodesia became Zimbabwe, Nyasaland became Malawi, and Bechuanaland became Botswana.Mexico City (AFP) – A Mexican court has barred sales of a controversial Frida Kahlo Barbie doll in the painter’s home country, ruling her family owned the sole rights to her image, lawyers said Thursday.

The Frida Kahlo doll, launched in March by US toy giant Mattel, has drawn criticism for putting a painter known for defying gender norms into the plastic body of Barbie.

It also drew a lawsuit from Kahlo’s relatives, who claimed Mattel used the painter’s image without their authorization and criticized the company for lightening her skin, feminizing her features and omitting her famous unibrow.

The court ruling bans sales of the Frida Barbie immediately in Mexico, or any use of the “brand, image and works of Frida Kahlo” by Mattel.

It can still be appealed.

The family said it would wait for the final outcome of the Mexican case, then launch a similar lawsuit in the United States.

“This litigation is in its first stage. We asked the judge to grant certain precautionary measures to protect our rights to Frida Kahlo’s intellectual property,” said the family’s lawyer, Pablo Sangri.

Mattel’s Mexico office did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

“I’m thrilled (with the decision), I think justice is finally being done,” Kahlo’s great-niece, Mara Romeo, told AFP.

She said the case is not just a dispute over rights, it is about who her aunt really was.

“It should have been a much more Mexican doll, with darker skin, a unibrow, not so thin because Frida was not that thin… dressed in more Mexican clothing, with Mexican jewelry.”

Kahlo (1907-1954), who was married to the famous Mexican muralist Diego Rivera, is today considered one of the great painters of the 20th century, particularly for her self-portraits, often brimming with pain and isolation.

Her instantly recognizable look — unibrow, thick black braids, flowery, hand-embroidered Mexican “tehuana” dresses — and the boldness with which she wore it have made her a pop icon.

In recent years, her image has been stamped onto an explosion of consumer products: nail polish, bags, shoes, coffee mugs and more.April 19 (UPI) — Real Sociedad knocked off Athletico Madrid 3-0 in a La Liga matchup Thursday at Anoeta Stadium in San Sebastian, Spain.

Athletico ranks No. 2 in La Liga, while Real Sociedad ranks No. 11.

“They played well and took advantage of their chances,” Athletico midfielder Thomas Partey told reporters. “We have to pick ourselves up and keep fighting.”

Real Sociedad got on the board first, getting a goal from Willian Jose in the 27th minute. The forward was on the receiving end of an Adnan Januzaj cross. He ran into the feed and smashed it into the net with a big right-footed boot past Athletico keeper Jan Oblak.

The home team took the 1-0 lead into the break, before Juanmi got going in the final 10 minutes. The forward took on a flick in the 80th minute, running into the box and outpacing defenders. He then lifted a chip over Oblak to give Real Sociedad a 2-0 edge.

Juanmi got Real Sociedad’s third score in the 92nd minute of the match. That time, the Spanish forward took on a cross from Alberto de la Bella. He finished the feed with a header from the near post and into the far post, fooling Oblak once again.

Juanmi received a yellow card for his celebration after scoring his eighth league goal.

Athletico faces Real Betis at 2:45 p.m. Sunday at Wanda Metropolitano in Madrid, Spain. Real Sociedad plays Malaga at 10:15 a.m. Sunday at La Rosaleda Stadium in Malaga, Spain.Two Chinese H-6K bombers flew around Taiwan on Wednesday afternoon in what the Chinese military described as a “sacred mission” to defend the “beautiful rivers and mountains of the motherland.” Taiwan saw things very differently, denouncing Chinese “military intimidation.”

The H-6K is a nuclear-capable bomber developed as China’s answer to the American B-52. It frequently participates in provocative air patrols meant to intimidate China’s regional adversaries, including previous flights around Taiwan and near Japanese airspace.

“The motherland is in our hearts, and the jeweled island is in the bosom of the motherland. Defending the beautiful rivers and mountains of the motherland is the sacred mission of air force pilots,” H-6K captain Zhai Peisong declared on the Chinese air force blog.

The Taiwan Affairs Office of China said “independence separatist activities” are threatening regional stability, and the Taiwanese should not “underestimate our resolute resolve and strong ability to defend the nation’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”

The corresponding office in Taiwan, the Mainland Affairs Council, criticized the Chinese bomber flight as a vain attempt at “military intimidation.”

“Our determination to defend the country’s sovereign dignity will never give in to any threat or inducement of force,” the Taiwanese declared.

“China has deliberately manipulated [the bomber exercise] to pressure and harass Taiwan in an attempt to spark tensions between the two sides and in the region,” said Chiu Chui-cheng of the Mainland Affairs Council, vowing that Taiwan will “never bow down to any military threat.”

China proceeded with a scheduled live-fire naval drill near Taiwan on Wednesday, but the Taiwanese said the exercise was scaled down from the show Beijing might have originally intended to put on, thanks to recent improvements in China-Taiwan relations.

A source close to the Chinese military seemed to agree, telling the South China Morning Post that the naval drill was “relatively small-scale because Beijing wanted to send a warning to the separatists, and the independence-leaning Tsai Ing-wen administration, not provoke ordinary people’s emotions.”

“The Taipei authorities confirmed that they had canceled a cannon drill that was scheduled to take place the same day and restricted themselves to verbal salvoes against the mainland,” the SCMP added with a dash of humor.

A live-fire drill of Chinese combat helicopters was also conducted on Wednesday, ostensibly to test their “all-weather operational capability” at sea. Chinese media reports did not specify exactly where this exercise was held or if it was directly connected to the naval drill in the Straits of Taiwan.

Rumors persist that China’s only operational aircraft carrier, the Liaoning, will conclude its first extensive series of military drills by cruising through the Straits of Taiwan en route to its home port of Dalian. The SCMP notes that recent photos of the aircraft carrier published by the Chinese navy show at least nine jet fighters parked on deck.Hundreds of supporters lined the highway into Key West, Florida on Thursday to watch President Donald Trump’s motorcade.

Supporters cheered, waving flags and supportive signs as the motorcade passed.

Some in the crowds, however, were not supporters of the president.

The president traveled to the Joint Interagency Task Force South at Naval Air Station Key West for a border security briefing with Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen.

Trump commented on the size of the crowds after the briefing.

“I hope you saw the crowds in Key West,” he told reporters. “I’ve never seen anything like that, it was really very inspirational, and what we just witnessed was incredible.”

He ignored questions about his personal lawyer Michael Cohen and the Robert Mueller Russian investigation.

“Even the media will have to say that was quite something,” he said.

A video of the crowd was later posted to Trump’s Instagram account.Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt has unquestionably been the most effective official in President Donald Trump’s administration.

He has laid waste to Barack Obama’s radical environmental legacy, which is why Democrats, the mainstream media, academia, environmentalists, and left-wing advocacy groups are in full-panic mode. Out of desperation, these zealots (aided by the media) are resorting to unwarranted character assaults to challenge Pruitt’s integrity and diminish his authority.

The disingenuousness of these attacks is made evident by the silence of these same groups when several Obama-era federal agencies engaged in illegal and/or unethical activities. The fact very few Americans know the name “Richard Windsor” is proof of selective outrage by “good government” groups and the media. (Windsor is the name of a fake EPA employee created by former EPA head Lisa Jackson to skirt public-records laws.)

Thankfully, Pruitt is not letting ad hominem attacks distract him from his mission of implementing a “back to basics” agenda for EPA. Unlike most of his predecessors at EPA and his opponents on the left, Pruitt believes, “We can and we will achieve clean air and clean water and we will also have strong economic growth and job creation at the same time.”

To accomplish these long-overdue reforms, Pruitt has focused on and been incredibly successful at implementing a “three E’s” strategy: concentrating on the environment, economy, and engagement with state and local governments.

Here are just some of Pruitt’s remarkable achievements:

Protecting the Environment

Under Obama, the EPA became a highly politicized agency, one that had been captured by radical environmental groups. When Pruitt took office, he vowed to refocus the agency on its core mission: protecting the environment and staying out of politics.

In May 2017, Pruitt created the Super Fund Task Force “to provide recommendations for improving and expediting site cleanups and promoting redevelopment.” As of this writing, EPA has already completed seven Super Fund site clean-ups.

Additionally, EPA is prioritizing drinking water problems, including the egregious lead problem that arose during the Obama era in Flint, Michigan.

Sensible regulations that encourage economic growth

Obama’s two EPA administrators, Jackson and Gina McCarthy, instituted an unprecedented era of unnecessary, costly, burdensome rulemaking, undermining personal property rights and economic growth.

Fortunately, Pruitt has put an end to this. His highlights, which are many, include announcing that the United States will pull out of the Paris climate accord.

In 2016, Obama pushed the United States into the Paris climate agreement, which analysts found would reduce U.S. gross domestic product by more than $2.5 trillion and result in an average annual job loss of nearly 400,000 by 2035 compared to jobs projections without the accord.

Pruitt has been a staunch advocate of withdrawing from this fake “treaty,” and his support for the idea surely contributed to Trump’s decision to pull back from the Paris accords.

In October 2017, Pruitt proposed repealing Obama’s Clean Power Plan, a set of regulations that economists estimated would cost U.S. taxpayers $40 billion per year and produce no effect on global carbon dioxide levels.

Also in October, Pruitt issued a directive to end EPA’s “sue and settle” practices, a scheme in which radical environmental groups sue EPA to impose their agenda and EPA chooses not to fight the lawsuit in order to satisfy radical environmentalists’ demands.

Putting the interests of ordinary Americans ahead of special-interest groups, Pruitt declared in October 2017 “the days of regulation through litigation are over.”

In another measure designed to protect consumers, Pruitt announced in March 2018 the EPA will no longer use “secret science” in crafting regulations. Going forward, EPA rulemaking will be transparent and based on good data—not ideology.

Most recently, Pruitt suspended for review the onerous Corporate Annual Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards Obama’s regime rushed through near the end of his final term. These burdensome regulations mandated unachievable fuel economy standards and would have forced carmakers to produce vehicles Americans don’t want—and for an extra $3,800 per vehicle and negligible environmental benefits.

Engaging with state and local partners

For decades, EPA has usurped power from state and local governments. Pruitt is reversing this disturbing trend by instituting “cooperative federalism.” Under this program, EPA will coordinate with state and local governments, rather than dictating edicts. His track record so far includes his revision of the definition and implementation of Obama’s 2015 Waters of the United States rule (WOTUS), which was overly broad and abusive. WOTUS effectively granted to the federal government jurisdiction over every puddle and tiny body of water on private land.

“EPA is restoring states’ important role in the regulation of water,” Pruitt stated when announcing the end of the rule.

EPA is also establishing Compliance Assistance Centers to “help businesses, colleges and universities, local governments, tribes and federal facilities understand and comply with environmental requirements and save money,” and it’s introducing Next Generation Compliance standards to “reduce costs and saves time and resources, while improving compliance.”

Under Pruitt, the EPA is no longer imposing onerous rules that stifle economic growth and bankrupt the country. Instead, Pruitt is enacting levelheaded regulations that strike a proper balance between protecting the environment and maintaining consumer freedom.

After little more than a year on the job, Pruitt has transformed EPA’s culture and restored its mission. The EPA Swamp has been substantially drained, a huge setback for power-grabbing leftists. And it’s primarily for that reason the left and mainstream media have succumbed to attacking Pruitt’s character. Just imagine how apoplectic they will get if Pruitt is allowed to continue his record of success in the years ahead!

Chris Talgo (CTalgo@heartland.org) is an editorial assistant for The Heartland Institute and writer for Heartland’s American Exceptionalism website.Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt has unquestionably been the most effective official in President Donald Trump’s administration.

He has laid waste to Barack Obama’s radical environmental legacy, which is why Democrats, the mainstream media, academia, environmentalists, and left-wing advocacy groups are in full-panic mode. Out of desperation, these zealots (aided by the media) are resorting to unwarranted character assaults to challenge Pruitt’s integrity and diminish his authority.

The disingenuousness of these attacks is made evident by the silence of these same groups when several Obama-era federal agencies engaged in illegal and/or unethical activities. The fact very few Americans know the name “Richard Windsor” is proof of selective outrage by “good government” groups and the media. (Windsor is the name of a fake EPA employee created by former EPA head Lisa Jackson to skirt public-records laws.)

Thankfully, Pruitt is not letting ad hominem attacks distract him from his mission of implementing a “back to basics” agenda for EPA. Unlike most of his predecessors at EPA and his opponents on the left, Pruitt believes, “We can and we will achieve clean air and clean water and we will also have strong economic growth and job creation at the same time.”

To accomplish these long-overdue reforms, Pruitt has focused on and been incredibly successful at implementing a “three E’s” strategy: concentrating on the environment, economy, and engagement with state and local governments.

Here are just some of Pruitt’s remarkable achievements:

Protecting the Environment

Under Obama, the EPA became a highly politicized agency, one that had been captured by radical environmental groups. When Pruitt took office, he vowed to refocus the agency on its core mission: protecting the environment and staying out of politics.

In May 2017, Pruitt created the Super Fund Task Force “to provide recommendations for improving and expediting site cleanups and promoting redevelopment.” As of this writing, EPA has already completed seven Super Fund site clean-ups.

Additionally, EPA is prioritizing drinking water problems, including the egregious lead problem that arose during the Obama era in Flint, Michigan.

Sensible regulations that encourage economic growth

Obama’s two EPA administrators, Jackson and Gina McCarthy, instituted an unprecedented era of unnecessary, costly, burdensome rulemaking, undermining personal property rights and economic growth.

Fortunately, Pruitt has put an end to this. His highlights, which are many, include announcing that the United States will pull out of the Paris climate accord.

In 2016, Obama pushed the United States into the Paris climate agreement, which analysts found would reduce U.S. gross domestic product by more than $2.5 trillion and result in an average annual job loss of nearly 400,000 by 2035 compared to jobs projections without the accord.

Pruitt has been a staunch advocate of withdrawing from this fake “treaty,” and his support for the idea surely contributed to Trump’s decision to pull back from the Paris accords.

In October 2017, Pruitt proposed repealing Obama’s Clean Power Plan, a set of regulations that economists estimated would cost U.S. taxpayers $40 billion per year and produce no effect on global carbon dioxide levels.

Also in October, Pruitt issued a directive to end EPA’s “sue and settle” practices, a scheme in which radical environmental groups sue EPA to impose their agenda and EPA chooses not to fight the lawsuit in order to satisfy radical environmentalists’ demands.

Putting the interests of ordinary Americans ahead of special-interest groups, Pruitt declared in October 2017 “the days of regulation through litigation are over.”

In another measure designed to protect consumers, Pruitt announced in March 2018 the EPA will no longer use “secret science” in crafting regulations. Going forward, EPA rulemaking will be transparent and based on good data—not ideology.

Most recently, Pruitt suspended for review the onerous Corporate Annual Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards Obama’s regime rushed through near the end of his final term. These burdensome regulations mandated unachievable fuel economy standards and would have forced carmakers to produce vehicles Americans don’t want—and for an extra $3,800 per vehicle and negligible environmental benefits.

Engaging with state and local partners

For decades, EPA has usurped power from state and local governments. Pruitt is reversing this disturbing trend by instituting “cooperative federalism.” Under this program, EPA will coordinate with state and local governments, rather than dictating edicts. His track record so far includes his revision of the definition and implementation of Obama’s 2015 Waters of the United States rule (WOTUS), which was overly broad and abusive. WOTUS effectively granted to the federal government jurisdiction over every puddle and tiny body of water on private land.

“EPA is restoring states’ important role in the regulation of water,” Pruitt stated when announcing the end of the rule.

EPA is also establishing Compliance Assistance Centers to “help businesses, colleges and universities, local governments, tribes and federal facilities understand and comply with environmental requirements and save money,” and it’s introducing Next Generation Compliance standards to “reduce costs and saves time and resources, while improving compliance.”

Under Pruitt, the EPA is no longer imposing onerous rules that stifle economic growth and bankrupt the country. Instead, Pruitt is enacting levelheaded regulations that strike a proper balance between protecting the environment and maintaining consumer freedom.

After little more than a year on the job, Pruitt has transformed EPA’s culture and restored its mission. The EPA Swamp has been substantially drained, a huge setback for power-grabbing leftists. And it’s primarily for that reason the left and mainstream media have succumbed to attacking Pruitt’s character. Just imagine how apoplectic they will get if Pruitt is allowed to continue his record of success in the years ahead!

Chris Talgo (CTalgo@heartland.org) is an editorial assistant for The Heartland Institute and writer for Heartland’s American Exceptionalism website.Conservative Ohio Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor, a gubernatorial candidate in the key Rust Belt state, announced on Breitbart News Daily Thursday morning that Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) has endorsed her campaign for governor against GOP establishment-backed Mike DeWine.

“I’d like to break some really great news for our campaign on your show this morning,” Taylor said at the open of the interview on SiriusXM 125 The Patriot Channel when asked why she’s surging despite millions in attack ads against her.

“I’d like to announce the endorsement of Sen. Ted Cruz for the Taylor-[Nathan] Estruth campaign. That directly answers your question. Conservatives like Ted Cruz and Mike Lee, Steve Daines, and Rand Paul have all endorsed the Taylor-Estruth ticket because we are the true conservative choice, and so, we are seeing in Ohio and nationally conservatives are rallying around our ticket. In fact, everything you’ve just said is the case: DeWine is the good old boys establishment candidate, and the establishment in Columbus is getting really nervous because the polls have closed significantly, and they know conservatives are coming home, and conservatives will never vote for a liberal like Mike DeWine.”

Immediately following Taylor’s appearance on Breitbart News Daily where she rolled out the Cruz endorsement, Cruz tweeted his endorsement:

I am proud to endorse Mary Taylor, and I urge the voters of Ohio to join me by supporting her: https://t.co/lUax06STFr https://t.co/Lz9K2fcMmD — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) April 19, 2018

I am honored to have the support of @tedcruz. Cruz has been a national leader of the conservative movement. He joins other conservative leaders who endorse my campaign for governor. pic.twitter.com/xPJzmdtjJS — Mary Taylor (@MaryTaylorOH) April 19, 2018

“I’m asking voters to carefully consider the choices before them this election cycle, and to stand with those who have proven themselves to be conservatives of conviction,” Cruz said in his statement endorsing Taylor, as reported by the Cleveland Plain Dealer. “In the race for Governor in Ohio I am proud to endorse Mary Taylor, and I urge the voters of Ohio to join me by supporting her.”

The American Conservative Union (ACU), which hosts the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) every year, has also endorsed Taylor:

ICYMI: ACU has endorsed @MaryTaylorOH for Governor of Ohio. — ACU (@ACUConservative) April 18, 2018

As Breitbart News reported on Wednesday, Taylor has surged in the polls against DeWine—who is supported by the establishment GOP network in Ohio behind outgoing Gov. John Kasich. Kasich, a failed 2016 GOP presidential candidate, has been vehemently anti-Donald Trump since he lost to Trump in the last cycle—and reports out this week suggest establishment Republicans in Washington are aiming to prop up Kasich as a potential primary challenger to the president in 2020.

In fact, CNN quoted several sitting members of the U.S. House and U.S. Senate—including members of leadership—refusing to endorse the president’s re-election campaign. Trump supporters and conservatives in Ohio could, in this upcoming May 8 gubernatorial primary, deal a significant blow to Kasich’s long-term prospects of undermining conservatives and Trump supporters and solidify the president’s support by nominating Taylor in the governor’s race.

DeWine is currently the attorney general of Ohio after previously serving as a U.S. senator and lieutenant governor of the state. Prior to that, he was a U.S. House member, and before that, he was in the state Senate—having served in government jobs since 1981.

All these surprise developments in the Ohio governor’s race come as DeWine finds himself under serious fire in Ohio for running phony attack ads against Taylor. Running a typical playbook for GOP establishment candidates, DeWine has put on television ads what the Columbus Dispatch calls a “dubious claim” that Taylor has profited from government service.

“Mary Taylor and her family have enriched themselves at the public trough, a new TV commercial claims as Mike DeWine continues his multimillion-dollar media spending spree ahead of the May 8 primary,” the Columbus Dispatch’s Randy Ludlow wrote about the ad campaign,” adding:

The spot, though, questionably implies that Taylor played a large and direct role in the award of state dollars, or tax breaks, that ultimately benefited her husband’s business. The 30-second commercial, which concludes “Mary Taylor — taxing, taking and two-faced” — continues the nasty tone underlying the contest for the Republican nomination for governor.

The catch, though, according to the Columbus Dispatch report, is in the “fine print” at the bottom of the ads: Taylor had nothing to do with these contracts.

“The fine print of the commercial cites newspaper reports reflecting the award of state construction dollars to public entities and the granting of state tax breaks to businesses while Taylor was a legislator and lieutenant governor,” Ludlow reported. He added:

Taylor’s husband, Donzell Taylor, and his Welty Construction Co. received work on the projects. But it did not get all or most of “over $100 million” or receive the money directly. In fact, Taylor could not have had anything to do with one of the cited examples, a $30 million tax credit for Goodyear’s new headquarters in Akron in 2007 that was awarded by a state authority when she was an Akron-area legislator.

Taylor told Breitbart News Daily that the ads reek of DeWine desperation as the momentum swings her way.

“We feel it on the ground,” Taylor said. “We’ve done over 100 events in 50 counties since the first of March, and conservatives are coming home and rallying for us. And they’re saying exactly what you just said: Mike DeWine is a liberal. He’s attacking you because he has no place to go. And we’re going to support the conservative who has a record of standing for conservative values and recognizing that government is not the solution—and we also know based on the numbers in the polls, the polls have closed 30 points since the beginning of January. Last week, we released a poll that showed this was a ten-point race. We absolutely expect that we’re in the single digits this week because we went up on statewide TV on Friday, and we believe a week out, we’re going to be leading, and we’re going to carry that victory all the way through the primary on primary election day on May 8.”

The winner between Taylor and DeWine will likely face off against Richard Cordray, the now-former director of the highly controversial Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)—a hard leftist in the mold of Sen. Liz Warren (D-MA). To win, Taylor said Republicans need a bold contrast in November to make it a clear choice for voters.

“Mike DeWine will not be a contrast to Richard Cordray, who represents the far left,” Taylor said on Thursday’s program. “In fact, Mike DeWine voted 162 times when he was in the U.S. Senate with Hillary Clinton. He earned an F from the NRA. Mike DeWine will not be a contrast to that far left. But I love that you said, ‘Paint with bold primary colors, not with pale pastels.’ I start every one of my speeches with that great quote from Ronald Reagan. What I believe it’s going to take for Republicans to win in November in Ohio is for somebody who’s a true conservative who actually believes in governing as a conservative but also who understands that government doesn’t solve, but problems are solved by people, and when you restore freedom and opportunity back to those people, they will make the best decisions for what’s right for their families and what’s right for their communities and neighborhoods and ultimately what’s right for the state.”

LISTEN TO OHIO LT. GOV. MARY TAYLOR ON BREITBART NEWS DAILY:Conservative Ohio Lt. Gov. Mary Taylor, a gubernatorial candidate in the key Rust Belt state, announced on Breitbart News Daily Thursday morning that Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) has endorsed her campaign for governor against GOP establishment-backed Mike DeWine.

“I’d like to break some really great news for our campaign on your show this morning,” Taylor said at the open of the interview on SiriusXM 125 The Patriot Channel when asked why she’s surging despite millions in attack ads against her.

“I’d like to announce the endorsement of Sen. Ted Cruz for the Taylor-[Nathan] Estruth campaign. That directly answers your question. Conservatives like Ted Cruz and Mike Lee, Steve Daines, and Rand Paul have all endorsed the Taylor-Estruth ticket because we are the true conservative choice, and so, we are seeing in Ohio and nationally conservatives are rallying around our ticket. In fact, everything you’ve just said is the case: DeWine is the good old boys establishment candidate, and the establishment in Columbus is getting really nervous because the polls have closed significantly, and they know conservatives are coming home, and conservatives will never vote for a liberal like Mike DeWine.”

Immediately following Taylor’s appearance on Breitbart News Daily where she rolled out the Cruz endorsement, Cruz tweeted his endorsement:

I am proud to endorse Mary Taylor, and I urge the voters of Ohio to join me by supporting her: https://t.co/lUax06STFr https://t.co/Lz9K2fcMmD — Ted Cruz (@tedcruz) April 19, 2018

I am honored to have the support of @tedcruz. Cruz has been a national leader of the conservative movement. He joins other conservative leaders who endorse my campaign for governor. pic.twitter.com/xPJzmdtjJS — Mary Taylor (@MaryTaylorOH) April 19, 2018

“I’m asking voters to carefully consider the choices before them this election cycle, and to stand with those who have proven themselves to be conservatives of conviction,” Cruz said in his statement endorsing Taylor, as reported by the Cleveland Plain Dealer. “In the race for Governor in Ohio I am proud to endorse Mary Taylor, and I urge the voters of Ohio to join me by supporting her.”

The American Conservative Union (ACU), which hosts the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) every year, has also endorsed Taylor:

ICYMI: ACU has endorsed @MaryTaylorOH for Governor of Ohio. — ACU (@ACUConservative) April 18, 2018

As Breitbart News reported on Wednesday, Taylor has surged in the polls against DeWine—who is supported by the establishment GOP network in Ohio behind outgoing Gov. John Kasich. Kasich, a failed 2016 GOP presidential candidate, has been vehemently anti-Donald Trump since he lost to Trump in the last cycle—and reports out this week suggest establishment Republicans in Washington are aiming to prop up Kasich as a potential primary challenger to the president in 2020.

In fact, CNN quoted several sitting members of the U.S. House and U.S. Senate—including members of leadership—refusing to endorse the president’s re-election campaign. Trump supporters and conservatives in Ohio could, in this upcoming May 8 gubernatorial primary, deal a significant blow to Kasich’s long-term prospects of undermining conservatives and Trump supporters and solidify the president’s support by nominating Taylor in the governor’s race.

DeWine is currently the attorney general of Ohio after previously serving as a U.S. senator and lieutenant governor of the state. Prior to that, he was a U.S. House member, and before that, he was in the state Senate—having served in government jobs since 1981.

All these surprise developments in the Ohio governor’s race come as DeWine finds himself under serious fire in Ohio for running phony attack ads against Taylor. Running a typical playbook for GOP establishment candidates, DeWine has put on television ads what the Columbus Dispatch calls a “dubious claim” that Taylor has profited from government service.

“Mary Taylor and her family have enriched themselves at the public trough, a new TV commercial claims as Mike DeWine continues his multimillion-dollar media spending spree ahead of the May 8 primary,” the Columbus Dispatch’s Randy Ludlow wrote about the ad campaign,” adding:

The spot, though, questionably implies that Taylor played a large and direct role in the award of state dollars, or tax breaks, that ultimately benefited her husband’s business. The 30-second commercial, which concludes “Mary Taylor — taxing, taking and two-faced” — continues the nasty tone underlying the contest for the Republican nomination for governor.

The catch, though, according to the Columbus Dispatch report, is in the “fine print” at the bottom of the ads: Taylor had nothing to do with these contracts.

“The fine print of the commercial cites newspaper reports reflecting the award of state construction dollars to public entities and the granting of state tax breaks to businesses while Taylor was a legislator and lieutenant governor,” Ludlow reported. He added:

Taylor’s husband, Donzell Taylor, and his Welty Construction Co. received work on the projects. But it did not get all or most of “over $100 million” or receive the money directly. In fact, Taylor could not have had anything to do with one of the cited examples, a $30 million tax credit for Goodyear’s new headquarters in Akron in 2007 that was awarded by a state authority when she was an Akron-area legislator.

Taylor told Breitbart News Daily that the ads reek of DeWine desperation as the momentum swings her way.

“We feel it on the ground,” Taylor said. “We’ve done over 100 events in 50 counties since the first of March, and conservatives are coming home and rallying for us. And they’re saying exactly what you just said: Mike DeWine is a liberal. He’s attacking you because he has no place to go. And we’re going to support the conservative who has a record of standing for conservative values and recognizing that government is not the solution—and we also know based on the numbers in the polls, the polls have closed 30 points since the beginning of January. Last week, we released a poll that showed this was a ten-point race. We absolutely expect that we’re in the single digits this week because we went up on statewide TV on Friday, and we believe a week out, we’re going to be leading, and we’re going to carry that victory all the way through the primary on primary election day on May 8.”

The winner between Taylor and DeWine will likely face off against Richard Cordray, the now-former director of the highly controversial Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)—a hard leftist in the mold of Sen. Liz Warren (D-MA). To win, Taylor said Republicans need a bold contrast in November to make it a clear choice for voters.

“Mike DeWine will not be a contrast to Richard Cordray, who represents the far left,” Taylor said on Thursday’s program. “In fact, Mike DeWine voted 162 times when he was in the U.S. Senate with Hillary Clinton. He earned an F from the NRA. Mike DeWine will not be a contrast to that far left. But I love that you said, ‘Paint with bold primary colors, not with pale pastels.’ I start every one of my speeches with that great quote from Ronald Reagan. What I believe it’s going to take for Republicans to win in November in Ohio is for somebody who’s a true conservative who actually believes in governing as a conservative but also who understands that government doesn’t solve, but problems are solved by people, and when you restore freedom and opportunity back to those people, they will make the best decisions for what’s right for their families and what’s right for their communities and neighborhoods and ultimately what’s right for the state.”

LISTEN TO OHIO LT. GOV. MARY TAYLOR ON BREITBART NEWS DAILY:Thursday at a press conference at Philadelphia Police headquarters, Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross apologized for his earlier statement defending the police officers who arrested two African-American men, Donte Robinson and Rashan Nelson, at a Starbucks last week.

The men were arrested after the manager called 911 because they had not ordered a drink and did not leave when they were asked to.

Ross said, “I’m here to discuss the unfortunate incident that has been in the news about this great city, an incident that I fully acknowledge that I played a significant role in making it worse. For starters, I should have said the officers acted within the scope of the law and not that they didn’t do anything wrong. Words are very important.”

He continued, “While it is no excuse, my lack of awareness of the Starbucks business model played a role in my messaging. While this is apparently a well-known fact with Starbucks customers, not everyone is aware that people spend long hours in Starbucks and aren’t necessarily expected to make a purchase. I have had multiple discussions over the last few days and and it is a—I shouldn’t say a well known fact, but a wide spread belief, that everyone knows that about Starbucks. I am here to tell you that I did not and it is also reasonable to believe the officers didn’t know it either.”

He added, “I can appreciate, in light of the Starbucks policy and how well known it is to many, why these two men were appalled when they were asked to leave. For this reason, me, I apologize to them.”

(h/t Grabien)

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENThursday at a press conference at Philadelphia Police headquarters, Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross apologized for his earlier statement defending the police officers who arrested two African-American men, Donte Robinson and Rashan Nelson, at a Starbucks last week.

The men were arrested after the manager called 911 because they had not ordered a drink and did not leave when they were asked to.

Ross said, “I’m here to discuss the unfortunate incident that has been in the news about this great city, an incident that I fully acknowledge that I played a significant role in making it worse. For starters, I should have said the officers acted within the scope of the law and not that they didn’t do anything wrong. Words are very important.”

He continued, “While it is no excuse, my lack of awareness of the Starbucks business model played a role in my messaging. While this is apparently a well-known fact with Starbucks customers, not everyone is aware that people spend long hours in Starbucks and aren’t necessarily expected to make a purchase. I have had multiple discussions over the last few days and and it is a—I shouldn’t say a well known fact, but a wide spread belief, that everyone knows that about Starbucks. I am here to tell you that I did not and it is also reasonable to believe the officers didn’t know it either.”

He added, “I can appreciate, in light of the Starbucks policy and how well known it is to many, why these two men were appalled when they were asked to leave. For this reason, me, I apologize to them.”

(h/t Grabien)

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNEN"3 weeks ago I said (Cohen) would flip I was the first one to call it.. Now people close to the president are telling him the same ... I'm going to make a prediction now: I do not think the President will serve out his term" - @MichaelAvenatti tells @NicolleDWallace pic.twitter.com/Mw3Pdlhudt

On Thursday’s broadcast of MSNBC’s “Deadline: White House,” Stormy Daniels’ attorney, Michael Avenatti, predicted that President Trump will not serve out his term.

Avenatti said, “There’s no question that Michael Cohen knows where many, many bodies are buried. They are going to turn him. And when they turn him, the president is going to be in a very, very bad place. And I’m going to make a prediction now, I do not think the president will serve out his term. I just don’t.”

Avenatti also stated, “I think three weeks ago I said that ultimately, he [Cohen] was going to be indicted and he was going to flip on the president. I was the first one to call it. And now, you know, people that are close to the president are telling him the same thing.”

(h/t Mediaite)

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettThursday on CNN’s “Wolf,” Harvard Law professor Alan Dershowitz said President Donald Trump should “assume your best friends will flip” to cooperate with investigators once they are charged with crimes.

When asked about Michael Cohen, Dershowitz said, “I have told every client I have represented over the last 53 years—assume your best friends will flip. Prosecution has an enormous leverage. They can charge you with a dozen crimes, even if they’re relatively technical crimes, that accumulate with the guidelines and tell you you’ll never see the outside again, you’ll serve your life in prison. That kind of pressure brings forth not only singing but composing. Witnesses realize the better the story, the better the deal they get, so the risk is they will exaggerate or elaborate or even sometimes make up stories. I think the president has to assume that his closest friends, his greatest associates, the people he trusts the most, if exposed to the risk of life imprisonment will flip. That has to be his working assumption.”

When asked why Trump should worry if he has don’t nothing wrong, Dershowitz added, “It is certainly possible for people who have done nothing wrong to be caught up. You can be prosecuted for perjury for telling the truth, if somebody tells a different truth.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENA poll by the Public Religion Research Institute shows that support for President Trump among white evangelicals has hit a record high of 75 percent. Only 22 percent view the president unfavorably.

The Hill reports that the “president’s favorability with white evangelicals in the poll has steadily risen over time, with his previous high being at 74 percent in February 2017.”

At one point this year, though, that number sat at just 68 percent.

In this same poll, among the general public, Trump’s job approval number sits at 42 percent, a five point jump since January.

One key take away from this poll is the establishment media’s total failure to separate Trump from the evangelical vote. This goal is why the media is willing to make such hypocritical fools of themselves while obsessing over Trump’s sex life.

The very same media that ignored, downplayed, and defended Bill Clinton and John Edwards from sex scandals that occurred in the White House and on the campaign trail, are more than willing to look ridiculous frenzying over the possibility that Trump might have boinked some hotties in consensual relationships more than a dozen years ago.

The whole point of this coverage is to undermine Trump’s support with his core in the evangelical community, which only proves how provincial and out-of-touch the media are in believing such a thing would work.

What’s more, when you see the jump in support from 68 percent to 75 percent during the very same period the media decided to go 24/7 with Trump’s sex life, it is safe to say that this tactic has not only failed, it has backfired.

Of course, the media are not alone. There are a countless number of stupes in the NeverTrump movement, like Jonah Goldberg, who are just as obsessed and ignorant.

To begin with, as Tucker Carlson so memorably put it, after eight years of Christians having their religious freedoms under assault during the Obama-era, we are looking for a bodyguard, not a saint. And let us not forget that many of the saints were not saints, but rather complicated, fallen, and difficult people who fell short in all kinds of ways.

Moreover, a present-day scandal (Edwards, Clinton) compared to something that might have happened over a decade ago, is just not a concern to the Faithful (I’m Catholic), especially when the fascist state wants us to pay for abortions and force Christian cake and floral artists to participate in the sacramentalization of sin that is a same sex wedding.

But because their bigoted and narrow minds stereotype evangelicals, the media and NeverTrump have confused the Faithful with the Pharisees — those judgmental finger-pointers who damn the imperfect. These bigots have forgotten that Christians are instead taught to refrain from judgment and to focus on our own sins.

The truth is that it is the media and NeverTrump who are behaving like the Pharisees, using sin as a political weapon to further their own mercenary goals. There is no principle behind their self-righteous moralizing, just ego and bitterness, a craven desire to emotionally blackmail and manipulate people.

Jesus had the choice of siding with the sinners or the hypocritical Pharisees. He chose the sinners, knowing there was at least some hope for their salvation while the strident, sanctimonious Pharisees were hopeless.

There is an important lesson in that.

As long as Trump keeps protecting our rights and the pious scolds keep standing atop the logs in their eyes to hector us into condemning others, this is a shockingly easy choice.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced his decision to join President Donald Trump’s legal team as the Russia investigation by Special Counsel Robert Mueller continues.

“I’m doing it because I hope we can negotiate an end to this for the good of the country and because I have high regard for the president and for Bob Mueller,” Giuliani said in an interview with the Washington Post.

Counsel to the President Jay Sekulow confirmed the news in a statement to reporters.

“I have had the privilege of working with Mayor Giuliani for many years, and we welcome his expertise,” he said.

The former New York City mayor, who was a key Trump supporter during the 2016 election, will leave his law firm Greenberg Traurig to join the president’s legal team.

“Rudy is great,” Trump said in the statement. “He has been my friend for a long time and wants to get this matter quickly resolved for the good of the country.”

Giuliani was a rumored candidate to serve as Trump’s attorney general, but the job went to Sen. Jeff Sessions instead, who recused himself from the ongoing Russia investigation.

Giuliani had a long legal career before he was elected mayor of New York City in 1997. After an unsuccessful run for Senate and failing to win the Republican nomination for president in 2008, he returned to the private sector.

Sekulow announced that Jane Serene Raskin and Marty Raskin had also joined Trump’s legal team, citing their “reputation for excellence and integrity.”Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) joined SiriusXM hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak on Monday’s Breitbart News Tonight, saying WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was previously prepared to provide him with “physical proof” that WikiLeaks’ source for Democratic National Committee (DNC) emails was not the Russian government.

Rohrabacher described the “Russia collusion” narrative as “total baloney.” He said, “By now, everybody knows that this idea that Trump was colluding with the Russians in order to get them to do things like steal the DNC emails and then release them through WikiLeaks, the public knows that’s just total baloney [and] an excuse. In fact, all they’re doing is trying to cover up the fact that they themselves are undermining our Constitution by preventing our president from assuming his authority that was given to him by the voters.”

LISTEN:



Rohrabacher spoke of his meeting with Assange in August 2017 at the Ecuadorian embassy in London, U.K. He stated, “I knew the one man who could prove that it was all baloney was Assange. So I went to see him in London, and he confirmed for me that the Russians did not give him the DNC emails. He had physical proof of that, and he was going to let me see that and have that, but only once, I found an agreement so he wouldn’t get arrested when he leaves the Ecuadorian embassy in London. Unfortunately, this was in the middle of having a special prosecutor, [and] any discussion with Trump and myself that mentions Russia will be used as an excuse by that special prosecutor to just quadruple all the areas of investigation into me and into Trump. So it is standing there. I’ve been waiting because I know that we’re not going to give this special prosecutor any more ammunition than he needs to try to destroy this president.”

Rohrabacher rejected news media characterizations of him as a de facto fifth columnist Kremlin agent. He called for cooperation between the U.S. and Russia in combating Islamic terrorism. He remarked, “I spent my whole life fighting communism, but we won the Cold War, and the Soviet Union has collapsed, and I think now when we have radical Islam as our main enemy, we should be cooperating with Russia in order to defeat that enemy. That has been portrayed to people as if I am some sort of pro-communist or something, when, in fact, it just makes sense for us to try to find ways of cooperating to defeat this horrible enemy that threatens all of Western Civilization.”

Rohrabacher added, “The news media has story after story as if I’m Putin’s favorite congressman. Give me a break. On top of it, I am the chairman of the subcommittee on foreign affairs that has the jurisdiction of overseeing our relations with Russia. I have actually had meetings [with Russians], and that’s being portrayed to everybody as if I’m colluding with them to hurt the United States. My constituents understand who I am, and they’re not buying into that.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.Rep. Dana Rohrabacher (R-CA) joined SiriusXM hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak on Monday’s Breitbart News Tonight, saying WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange was previously prepared to provide him with “physical proof” that WikiLeaks’ source for Democratic National Committee (DNC) emails was not the Russian government.

Rohrabacher described the “Russia collusion” narrative as “total baloney.” He said, “By now, everybody knows that this idea that Trump was colluding with the Russians in order to get them to do things like steal the DNC emails and then release them through WikiLeaks, the public knows that’s just total baloney [and] an excuse. In fact, all they’re doing is trying to cover up the fact that they themselves are undermining our Constitution by preventing our president from assuming his authority that was given to him by the voters.”

LISTEN:



Rohrabacher spoke of his meeting with Assange in August 2017 at the Ecuadorian embassy in London, U.K. He stated, “I knew the one man who could prove that it was all baloney was Assange. So I went to see him in London, and he confirmed for me that the Russians did not give him the DNC emails. He had physical proof of that, and he was going to let me see that and have that, but only once, I found an agreement so he wouldn’t get arrested when he leaves the Ecuadorian embassy in London. Unfortunately, this was in the middle of having a special prosecutor, [and] any discussion with Trump and myself that mentions Russia will be used as an excuse by that special prosecutor to just quadruple all the areas of investigation into me and into Trump. So it is standing there. I’ve been waiting because I know that we’re not going to give this special prosecutor any more ammunition than he needs to try to destroy this president.”

Rohrabacher rejected news media characterizations of him as a de facto fifth columnist Kremlin agent. He called for cooperation between the U.S. and Russia in combating Islamic terrorism. He remarked, “I spent my whole life fighting communism, but we won the Cold War, and the Soviet Union has collapsed, and I think now when we have radical Islam as our main enemy, we should be cooperating with Russia in order to defeat that enemy. That has been portrayed to people as if I am some sort of pro-communist or something, when, in fact, it just makes sense for us to try to find ways of cooperating to defeat this horrible enemy that threatens all of Western Civilization.”

Rohrabacher added, “The news media has story after story as if I’m Putin’s favorite congressman. Give me a break. On top of it, I am the chairman of the subcommittee on foreign affairs that has the jurisdiction of overseeing our relations with Russia. I have actually had meetings [with Russians], and that’s being portrayed to everybody as if I’m colluding with them to hurt the United States. My constituents understand who I am, and they’re not buying into that.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.The Department of Justice’s (DOJ) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) has referred fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe to the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia for criminal prosecution, multiple reports indicated Thursday.

Inspector General Michael Horowitz’s investigation of McCabe’s involvement in leaks to the media concluded last month. The final report indicated three instances in which McCabe lied to investigators, prompting Attorney General Jeff Sessions to fire McCabe even before the report was released.

On Thursday, multiple outlets reported that Horowitz’s office also made a criminal referral based on McCabe’s conduct outlined in the report to the office of U.S. attorney Jessie Liu, the top federal prosecutor in the nation’s capital. In contrast to the headline-grabbing criminal referrals made by members of Congress, this type of referral is part of the DOJ’s standard operating procedure and stands a much better chance of resulting in actual criminal charges against McCabe.

It is unclear exactly when the referral was made, exactly which charges were recommended, or how it was received by Liu and her office.

After his firing, McCabe, making frequent appeals to President Trump’s opponents, managed to raise more than $400,000 for his legal defense fund, perhaps in anticipation of criminal prosecution.

The prospect of criminal prosecution for McCabe’s alleged “lack of candor” raises the prospect of a further showdown over the credibility of McCabe’s former boss, fired FBI Director James Comey. The OIG reports that conclusions against McCabe rest largely on the two men’s designations of each other as liars based on how they relayed their discussions of the leak.

McCabe attorney, Michael Bromwich, has made it clear his defense will be based on calling into question the accuracy of Comey’s account. If McCabe is tried, Comey would likely be a material witness to his alleged crimes, creating the possibility the men’s dispute will have to play out in a court of law.Comey says he is “fine” with Congress getting to see his memos that detail the former FBI director’s interactions with President Trump: “I’ve been consistent since the very beginning” https://t.co/XTJW5LUsTR

On Thursday’s broadcast of CNN’s “The Lead,” former FBI Director James Comey stated that it’s “fine” with him if Congress gets to see his memos about his meetings with President Trump.

Comey said he didn’t know if letting Congress see the memos is the right move because “I don’t know what considerations the department has taken into account.”

He added, “It’s fine by me. I don’t care. I don’t have any views on it. I’m totally fine with transparency. I’ve tried to be transparent throughout this, and I think what folks will see if they get to see the memos is, I’ve been consistent since the very beginning, right after my encounters with President Trump, and I’m consistent in the book and try to be transparent in the book as well.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettComey says he is “fine” with Congress getting to see his memos that detail the former FBI director’s interactions with President Trump: “I’ve been consistent since the very beginning” https://t.co/XTJW5LUsTR

On Thursday’s broadcast of CNN’s “The Lead,” former FBI Director James Comey stated that it’s “fine” with him if Congress gets to see his memos about his meetings with President Trump.

Comey said he didn’t know if letting Congress see the memos is the right move because “I don’t know what considerations the department has taken into account.”

He added, “It’s fine by me. I don’t care. I don’t have any views on it. I’m totally fine with transparency. I’ve tried to be transparent throughout this, and I think what folks will see if they get to see the memos is, I’ve been consistent since the very beginning, right after my encounters with President Trump, and I’m consistent in the book and try to be transparent in the book as well.”

Follow Ian Hanchett on Twitter @IanHanchettM.G. Siegler, a partner at Google Ventures, published an article recently claiming that Silicon Valley tech execs are losing touch with reality.

In an article published on his blog 500ish Words, Google Ventures partner M.G. Siegler published an article titled “Arrogance Peaks in Silicon Valley” which claims tech executives in Silicon Valley are becoming increasingly out of touch with reality. Siegler states that although this phenomenon pre-dates Facebook’s current scandal which has rocked Silicon Valley with the possibility of stricter regulation of tech firms, Facebook’s situation has brought it to the forefront.

“Increasingly, it feels like people in our industry, the tech industry, are losing touch with reality,” said Siegler. “You can see it in the tweets. You can hear it at tech conferences. Hell, you can hear it at most cafes in San Francisco on any given day. People — really smart people — saying some of the most vacuous things. Words that if they were able to take a step outside of their own heads and hear, they’d be embarrassed by.Or, at least, these are stances, thoughts, and ideas that these people should be embarrassed by. But they’re clearly not because they keep saying them.”

According to Siegler, this arrogance is so widespread in Silicon Valley that it’s commonly heard on an everyday basis: “But again, I feel like this is increasingly everywhere I look around tech. It’s an industry filled with some of the most brilliant people in the world, which makes it all the more disappointing. I won’t name names or give examples because I’m not an asshole. But also because I don’t have to. I’d wager everyone reading this will have clear and obvious examples of what I’m talking about in their own circles — even if only in their own virtual circles. This is everywhere.”

Siegler to some degree blamed President Trump for the issue: “I don’t know the cause of this. Perhaps we can blame part of it on Trump, even if only indirectly (a man who has gotten ahead in life by saying asinine things).” But admitted that there are other reasons for Silicon Valley’s growing arrogance: “If I had to guess, I’d say the root is an increasing sense of entitlement as the tech industry has grown in stature to become the most important from a fiscal perspective and arguably from a cultural perspective as well.”

Siegler finished his blog saying: “I offer no answers. Just observations. Because I think this is a very bad, and potentially catastrophic trend. We need Silicon Valley — the people behind these companies — to wake up. We need everyone to act like human beings, not like rogue AI programs vomiting up delusions of grandeur. I’m honestly not even sure that some individuals — people I know — could pass the Turing test at this point. Facebook is but a taste of what’s to come, I fear.”

Read the full post from a Silicon Valley insider here.M.G. Siegler, a partner at Google Ventures, published an article recently claiming that Silicon Valley tech execs are losing touch with reality.

In an article published on his blog 500ish Words, Google Ventures partner M.G. Siegler published an article titled “Arrogance Peaks in Silicon Valley” which claims tech executives in Silicon Valley are becoming increasingly out of touch with reality. Siegler states that although this phenomenon pre-dates Facebook’s current scandal which has rocked Silicon Valley with the possibility of stricter regulation of tech firms, Facebook’s situation has brought it to the forefront.

“Increasingly, it feels like people in our industry, the tech industry, are losing touch with reality,” said Siegler. “You can see it in the tweets. You can hear it at tech conferences. Hell, you can hear it at most cafes in San Francisco on any given day. People — really smart people — saying some of the most vacuous things. Words that if they were able to take a step outside of their own heads and hear, they’d be embarrassed by.Or, at least, these are stances, thoughts, and ideas that these people should be embarrassed by. But they’re clearly not because they keep saying them.”

According to Siegler, this arrogance is so widespread in Silicon Valley that it’s commonly heard on an everyday basis: “But again, I feel like this is increasingly everywhere I look around tech. It’s an industry filled with some of the most brilliant people in the world, which makes it all the more disappointing. I won’t name names or give examples because I’m not an asshole. But also because I don’t have to. I’d wager everyone reading this will have clear and obvious examples of what I’m talking about in their own circles — even if only in their own virtual circles. This is everywhere.”

Siegler to some degree blamed President Trump for the issue: “I don’t know the cause of this. Perhaps we can blame part of it on Trump, even if only indirectly (a man who has gotten ahead in life by saying asinine things).” But admitted that there are other reasons for Silicon Valley’s growing arrogance: “If I had to guess, I’d say the root is an increasing sense of entitlement as the tech industry has grown in stature to become the most important from a fiscal perspective and arguably from a cultural perspective as well.”

Siegler finished his blog saying: “I offer no answers. Just observations. Because I think this is a very bad, and potentially catastrophic trend. We need Silicon Valley — the people behind these companies — to wake up. We need everyone to act like human beings, not like rogue AI programs vomiting up delusions of grandeur. I’m honestly not even sure that some individuals — people I know — could pass the Turing test at this point. Facebook is but a taste of what’s to come, I fear.”

Read the full post from a Silicon Valley insider here.Alon Altman, a senior software engineer at Google, pressured the company to sabotage President Trump’s Android phone, according to new evidence released via James Damore’s class-action lawsuit against the company.

Calling on the tech giant to use the “full economic force [of] Google for good”, Altman also suggested deleting the gmail accounts of Trump, his administration, and his aides for “abuse.”

Altman – who is still employed by the tech giant – also called on Google to blacklist “alt-right’ sites on the Google ad network (she falsely included Breitbart News in this category — an assertion refuted by a Harvard and M.I.T. study), and take down all “alt right videos” from YouTube. She also called on the tech giant to remove “neo-Nazi sites such as ‘The Daily Stormer'” from the Google search index.

Altman has been employed at Google for seven years, and according to inside sources, is one of the most radical leftists at the company. She was named as one of the key architects of political discrimination at Google by a whistleblower we interviewed last August. As we have reported, she has previously called on the company to discipline or terminate any employee who agreed with James Damore’s viewpoint diversity manifesto, which argued that there was an atmosphere of political intolerance at Google.

Google seemed to follow at least one of Altman’s suggestions, effectively kicking The Daily Stormer off the internet in August 2017, a move that was condemned even by the left-leaning Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF).

While Google did not follow Altman’s suggestion to remove Breitbart News from its ad network, its employees have begun advising clients to steer clear of Breitbart News, as we exclusively reported in February.

More evidence that Google’s ad departments are trying to undermine the revenue of conservative sites has just been released via the Damore lawsuit.

According to the lawsuit, when Google’s “Large Customer Sales” (LCS) team learned that the Canadian conservative news site The Rebel Media had been targeted by the far-left group Sleeping Giants, they used this as an excuse to advise clients to remove ad placements from conservative websites.

In a template email to Google clients, Marshall Self, Director of Agency at Google, recommended that clients take advantage of Google’s “wide number of controls, including placement exclusions and filters for political content” to remove ads from specific sites, apps, YouTube channels and videos.

This is the latest information that has been released as part of the Damore lawsuit. Yesterday, we reported that Google cautions many of its managers against rewarding behavior that caters the values of “white-male dominant culture,” including “meritocracy,” “individual achievement” and “avoiding conflict.”

Three new plaintiffs have joined Damore’s lawsuit against Google, which alleges that the company discriminates against white, Asian, male, and conservative individuals.

Allum Bokhari is the senior technology correspondent at Breitbart News. You can follow him on Twitter, Gab.ai and add him on Facebook. Email tips and suggestions to allumbokhari@protonmail.com.Facebook has made moves to shrink their legal responsibilities under new EU data laws by storing as much international user data as possible in the United State instead of Ireland

Facebook is reportedly making a change to their Terms and Conditions that will be pushed out next month which will see the user data of all non-EU international users processed by Facebook USA rather than Facebook Ireland, meaning that approximately 1.5 billion Facebook users located in Africa, Asia, Australia and Latin America will not be subject to the new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) data laws which take effect on May 25, according to Reuters.

The new GDPR will allow European regulators to fine companies that collect or use personal data of their users without their permission. The GDPR allows for fines of up to 4 percent of global annual revenue for infractions by companies, making Facebook’s decision to push 1.5 billion users outside of the reach of the GDPR a financially sensible one for the company. The GDPR will give European users the right to know what data is collected on them and the right to have company’s delete that data. Some American tech firms, such as Apple, have stated that they will give American users the same privacy rights afforded to European users under the GDPR. As of December of last year, Facebook had 239 million users based in the United States and Canada, 370 million users in Europe and 1.52 billion users in other countries.

Facebook has previously stated that they will not be rolling out GDPR laws to their worldwide platforms, it now seems that they’re attempting to limit the power that the new laws have entirely. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has stated that although he agrees “in spirit” with the GDPR rules, the company has no plans to impose these EU rules worldwide — particularly not in the United States. Zuckerberg told Reuters that the company is working on a version of the EU law, which is set to take effect next month, that may bring elements of the law to a worldwide audience, but did not outline which elements of the law would be expanded. “We’re still nailing down details on this, but it should directionally be, in spirit, the whole thing,” said Zuckerberg.

Facebook will be rolling out new privacy choices to users under the GDPR, however. “Everyone — no matter where they live — will be asked to review important information about how Facebook uses data and make choices about their privacy on Facebook,” said chief privacy officer Erin Egan and deputy general counsel Ashlie Beringer in a statement. “We’ll begin by rolling these choices out in Europe this week.”

CEO Mark Zuckerberg has claimed that Facebook already provides many of the protections that the GDPR does on their own platform, allowing users to control the information that they share with Facebook and even allows users to delete that data. “We think that this is a good opportunity to take that moment across the rest of the world,” said Zuckerberg. “The vast majority of what is required here are things that we’ve already had for years across the world for everyone.”

Irish officials were allegedly not made aware of Facebook’s decision to decrease their presence in the country, Reuters reports:

Ireland was unaware of the change. One Irish official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he did not know of any plans by Facebook to transfer responsibilities wholesale to the United States or to decrease Facebook’s presence in Ireland, where the social network is seeking to recruit more than 100 new staff.

Facebook reportedly released a new terms of service draft two weeks ago and expect to have them take effect sometime next month, most likely before Mat 25th when the GDPR comes into effect.Facebook has made moves to shrink their legal responsibilities under new EU data laws by storing as much international user data as possible in the United State instead of Ireland

Facebook is reportedly making a change to their Terms and Conditions that will be pushed out next month which will see the user data of all non-EU international users processed by Facebook USA rather than Facebook Ireland, meaning that approximately 1.5 billion Facebook users located in Africa, Asia, Australia and Latin America will not be subject to the new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) data laws which take effect on May 25, according to Reuters.

The new GDPR will allow European regulators to fine companies that collect or use personal data of their users without their permission. The GDPR allows for fines of up to 4 percent of global annual revenue for infractions by companies, making Facebook’s decision to push 1.5 billion users outside of the reach of the GDPR a financially sensible one for the company. The GDPR will give European users the right to know what data is collected on them and the right to have company’s delete that data. Some American tech firms, such as Apple, have stated that they will give American users the same privacy rights afforded to European users under the GDPR. As of December of last year, Facebook had 239 million users based in the United States and Canada, 370 million users in Europe and 1.52 billion users in other countries.

Facebook has previously stated that they will not be rolling out GDPR laws to their worldwide platforms, it now seems that they’re attempting to limit the power that the new laws have entirely. Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg has stated that although he agrees “in spirit” with the GDPR rules, the company has no plans to impose these EU rules worldwide — particularly not in the United States. Zuckerberg told Reuters that the company is working on a version of the EU law, which is set to take effect next month, that may bring elements of the law to a worldwide audience, but did not outline which elements of the law would be expanded. “We’re still nailing down details on this, but it should directionally be, in spirit, the whole thing,” said Zuckerberg.

Facebook will be rolling out new privacy choices to users under the GDPR, however. “Everyone — no matter where they live — will be asked to review important information about how Facebook uses data and make choices about their privacy on Facebook,” said chief privacy officer Erin Egan and deputy general counsel Ashlie Beringer in a statement. “We’ll begin by rolling these choices out in Europe this week.”

CEO Mark Zuckerberg has claimed that Facebook already provides many of the protections that the GDPR does on their own platform, allowing users to control the information that they share with Facebook and even allows users to delete that data. “We think that this is a good opportunity to take that moment across the rest of the world,” said Zuckerberg. “The vast majority of what is required here are things that we’ve already had for years across the world for everyone.”

Irish officials were allegedly not made aware of Facebook’s decision to decrease their presence in the country, Reuters reports:

Ireland was unaware of the change. One Irish official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he did not know of any plans by Facebook to transfer responsibilities wholesale to the United States or to decrease Facebook’s presence in Ireland, where the social network is seeking to recruit more than 100 new staff.

Facebook reportedly released a new terms of service draft two weeks ago and expect to have them take effect sometime next month, most likely before Mat 25th when the GDPR comes into effect.Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN) lavished praise for former Democrat Tennesee Gov. Phil Bredesen over Republican Rep. Marsha Blackburn in the 2018 Senate midterm election, even suggesting that he will not campaign against the Democrat.

Sen. Corker offered strong praise for former Gov. Phil Bredesen on Wednesday and even suggested that Bredesen outpaces Blackburn by six points in the polls.

Corker also admitted that he will not campaign against Bredesen, and charged that the former Democrat governor would have “crossover appeal” in November’s heated Senate race.

“I think he has got real appeal,” Corker said. Sen. Corker, a “Never Trump” Republican, announced that he will retire at the end of his Senate term. The Tenessee senator also described Bredesen as a “friend of mine” and a partner for more than two decades.

Corker did say that he plans to vote for Blackburn over Bredesen and that he will contribute to her campaign.

Sen. Corker asked whether Bredesen’s crossover appeal attract enough voters to win the Senate election. Corker said, “In a state like ours that’s still a red state, is it enough?”

Bredesen sent a fundraising email out on Tuesday that featured Corker’s comments praising the former governor.

Corker admitted that he has closer ties to Bredesen than to Rep. Blackburn.

Sen. Corker said, “The reason I speak the way I do about the [former] governor is there’s just been such an intertwined working relationship on and off for 23 years.”

The retiring senator added:

I just never have had that kind of relationship with the congressperson. I mean, I’ve known her professionally, but it hasn’t been like we’ve been close friends and worked on issues together. I can’t think of a single piece of legislation we’ve ever worked on together.

Abbi Sigler, a Blackburn campaign spokeswoman, responded to the Corker comments, arguing that Bredesen will serve as a solid Democratic vote for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY).

Sigler said, “Phil Bredesen will be a solid vote for Chuck Schumer and Obama, Clinton-era liberal policies, and Tennesseans are not interested in that.”

Republicans campaigning for Blackburn vented frustration about Corker’s praise for the Republican’s Democrat opponent.

One Senate GOP strategist said, “Senator Corker is actively trying to undermine Senate Republicans and President Trump’s agenda. It’s sad that he is spending his last days in the Senate helping Chuck Schumer.”

On Thursday, Sen. Corker expressed doubt on whether President Donald Trump will run for reelection in 2020.

Corker said, “I have no idea whether the president runs for re-election, nor what the field will be on the Republican side, so I think it’s way too early to weigh in on who one might support.”

When reporters pressed him on if he would support Trump, Corker admitted, “I want to know who else is in the field.”

Meanwhile, Rep. Blackburn has fought for President Trump’s agenda in the House as the Communications and Technology Subcommittee chairman.

In January, Blackburn told Breitbart News Sunday that building a wall on the U.S. southern border is “not just important,” but “imperative.”

Blackburn sponsored the Browser Act, which would give Internet users more control over their digital privacy. The Browser Act has gained momentum in the House after reports revealed that Cambridge Analytica used Facebook to gain access to the personal data of more than 87 million users.

“People are beginning to understand that you have a right to privacy when you go online. You have an expectation of privacy,” Blackburn said.

Blackburn also grilled Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg in April during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing about Facebook’s privacy scandal.

In an exclusive interview with Breitbart News Tonight, Blackburn explained how Zuckerberg admitted that Facebook is “subjective in how they manipulate these algorithms” to censor conservatives.Sen. Bob Corker (R-TN) lavished praise for former Democrat Tennesee Gov. Phil Bredesen over Republican Rep. Marsha Blackburn in the 2018 Senate midterm election, even suggesting that he will not campaign against the Democrat.

Sen. Corker offered strong praise for former Gov. Phil Bredesen on Wednesday and even suggested that Bredesen outpaces Blackburn by six points in the polls.

Corker also admitted that he will not campaign against Bredesen, and charged that the former Democrat governor would have “crossover appeal” in November’s heated Senate race.

“I think he has got real appeal,” Corker said. Sen. Corker, a “Never Trump” Republican, announced that he will retire at the end of his Senate term. The Tenessee senator also described Bredesen as a “friend of mine” and a partner for more than two decades.

Corker did say that he plans to vote for Blackburn over Bredesen and that he will contribute to her campaign.

Sen. Corker asked whether Bredesen’s crossover appeal attract enough voters to win the Senate election. Corker said, “In a state like ours that’s still a red state, is it enough?”

Bredesen sent a fundraising email out on Tuesday that featured Corker’s comments praising the former governor.

Corker admitted that he has closer ties to Bredesen than to Rep. Blackburn.

Sen. Corker said, “The reason I speak the way I do about the [former] governor is there’s just been such an intertwined working relationship on and off for 23 years.”

The retiring senator added:

I just never have had that kind of relationship with the congressperson. I mean, I’ve known her professionally, but it hasn’t been like we’ve been close friends and worked on issues together. I can’t think of a single piece of legislation we’ve ever worked on together.

Abbi Sigler, a Blackburn campaign spokeswoman, responded to the Corker comments, arguing that Bredesen will serve as a solid Democratic vote for Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY).

Sigler said, “Phil Bredesen will be a solid vote for Chuck Schumer and Obama, Clinton-era liberal policies, and Tennesseans are not interested in that.”

Republicans campaigning for Blackburn vented frustration about Corker’s praise for the Republican’s Democrat opponent.

One Senate GOP strategist said, “Senator Corker is actively trying to undermine Senate Republicans and President Trump’s agenda. It’s sad that he is spending his last days in the Senate helping Chuck Schumer.”

On Thursday, Sen. Corker expressed doubt on whether President Donald Trump will run for reelection in 2020.

Corker said, “I have no idea whether the president runs for re-election, nor what the field will be on the Republican side, so I think it’s way too early to weigh in on who one might support.”

When reporters pressed him on if he would support Trump, Corker admitted, “I want to know who else is in the field.”

Meanwhile, Rep. Blackburn has fought for President Trump’s agenda in the House as the Communications and Technology Subcommittee chairman.

In January, Blackburn told Breitbart News Sunday that building a wall on the U.S. southern border is “not just important,” but “imperative.”

Blackburn sponsored the Browser Act, which would give Internet users more control over their digital privacy. The Browser Act has gained momentum in the House after reports revealed that Cambridge Analytica used Facebook to gain access to the personal data of more than 87 million users.

“People are beginning to understand that you have a right to privacy when you go online. You have an expectation of privacy,” Blackburn said.

Blackburn also grilled Facebook chief executive Mark Zuckerberg in April during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing about Facebook’s privacy scandal.

In an exclusive interview with Breitbart News Tonight, Blackburn explained how Zuckerberg admitted that Facebook is “subjective in how they manipulate these algorithms” to censor conservatives.President Donald Trump endorsed Rep. Marsha Blackburn for Senate, despite retiring Sen. Bob Corker praising her Democrat opponent.

Marsha Blackburn is a wonderful woman who has always been there when we have needed her,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Great on the Military, Border Security and Crime. Loves and works hard for the people of Tennessee.”

Trump praised Blackburn after retiring Sen. Bob Corker suggested she could lose the Senate race to replace him in Tennessee and that her Democrat opponent former Gov. Phil Bredesen had “real appeal” in the race.

But the president did not echo any of Corker’s concerns.

“She has my full endorsement and I will be there to campaign with her!” he wrote.

Trump has faced off with Corker before, describing him as “Liddle’ Bob Corker” after the retiring senator warned the world that the president was a threat to national security and could prompt “World War III.”

The Failing @nytimes set Liddle' Bob Corker up by recording his conversation. Was made to sound a fool, and that's what I am dealing with! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 10, 2017President Donald Trump endorsed Rep. Marsha Blackburn for Senate, despite retiring Sen. Bob Corker praising her Democrat opponent.

Marsha Blackburn is a wonderful woman who has always been there when we have needed her,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Great on the Military, Border Security and Crime. Loves and works hard for the people of Tennessee.”

Trump praised Blackburn after retiring Sen. Bob Corker suggested she could lose the Senate race to replace him in Tennessee and that her Democrat opponent former Gov. Phil Bredesen had “real appeal” in the race.

But the president did not echo any of Corker’s concerns.

“She has my full endorsement and I will be there to campaign with her!” he wrote.

Trump has faced off with Corker before, describing him as “Liddle’ Bob Corker” after the retiring senator warned the world that the president was a threat to national security and could prompt “World War III.”

The Failing @nytimes set Liddle' Bob Corker up by recording his conversation. Was made to sound a fool, and that's what I am dealing with! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 10, 2017Thursday on CNN’s “New Day,” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI) said it was way too early to be talking about 2020,” when asked if he would support President Donald Trump’s reelection bid.

Johnson said, “It could be a completely different world by 2020. We have a 2018 election first. So listen, I understand the gotcha question you’re engaging here. But it is way too early to even be talking about it.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENThursday on CNN’s “New Day,” Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI) said it was way too early to be talking about 2020,” when asked if he would support President Donald Trump’s reelection bid.

Johnson said, “It could be a completely different world by 2020. We have a 2018 election first. So listen, I understand the gotcha question you’re engaging here. But it is way too early to even be talking about it.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENGun control advocate David Hogg and his sister, Lauren, have inked a book deal with Random House with a release date of June 5.

The book will center on the gun control movement birthed by the Parkland attack.

Entertainment Weekly reports that David and Lauren “have been leaders in the gun control movement that took shape among students, in the aftermath of the Parkland shooting.” The siblings’ book “will explore their efforts taking on some of the most powerful forces in Washington and beyond, and will detail their commitment to new legislation aiming to prevent future tragedies.”

David released a statement regarding the book deal, saying, “In times of struggle and tragedy, we can come together in love and compassion for each other. We can see each other not as political symbols, but as human beings. And then, of course, there will be times when we simply must fight for what is right.”

Lauren said, “It’s amazing to see that so much love can come from so much loss. But from our loss, our generation will create positive change.”

David recently urged advertisers to boycott Fox News’ Laura Ingraham, securing an initial loss of some advertisers but eventually turning a 20 percent increase in her viewership. He is now urging a boycott of some of the biggest, most profitable mutual fund companies because those companies’ funds have stock in gun manufacturers.

Breitbart News reported that David specifically targeted Blackrock and Vanguard Group. He is trying to get the hashtags #BoycottBlackrock and #BoycottVanguard to trend.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Parkland school shooting survivor and Second Amendment advocate Kyle Kashuv flew to Nebraska to take Fidan Ibrahimova to the prom after she reached out to him on Twitter.

Ibrahimova explained that Kashuv caught her eye because he went against the grain, remaining pro-gun in a post-Parkland world where voice after voice is spewing anti-gun sentiment.

The Lincoln Journal Star reported that Ibrahimova reached out to Kashuv on April 2 and asked “how many retweets she would need to get him to be her prom date.” She received no response, so she asked again. Kashuv responded with a figure of 5,000.

Ibrahimova asked people to help “a dream come true” by retweeting, and she awoke to 2,000 retweets. The momentum continued until she had more than 8,000 retweets in the first week.

Kashuv responded to the retweets by letting Ibrahimova know he did not have a tuxedo. She handled that via a GoFundMe campaign through which she raised money that could cover his tux and flight to Nebraska, as well as their prom night dinner. Kashuv opted to wear a suit instead.

Ibrahimova said she was impressed with Kashuv for continuing to fight even though the establishment media were almost exclusively carrying the “really loud” voices of the pro-gun control side but “not so much the conservative side.”

Yet Kashuv keeps fighting.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Parkland school shooting survivor and Second Amendment advocate Kyle Kashuv flew to Nebraska to take Fidan Ibrahimova to the prom after she reached out to him on Twitter.

Ibrahimova explained that Kashuv caught her eye because he went against the grain, remaining pro-gun in a post-Parkland world where voice after voice is spewing anti-gun sentiment.

The Lincoln Journal Star reported that Ibrahimova reached out to Kashuv on April 2 and asked “how many retweets she would need to get him to be her prom date.” She received no response, so she asked again. Kashuv responded with a figure of 5,000.

Ibrahimova asked people to help “a dream come true” by retweeting, and she awoke to 2,000 retweets. The momentum continued until she had more than 8,000 retweets in the first week.

Kashuv responded to the retweets by letting Ibrahimova know he did not have a tuxedo. She handled that via a GoFundMe campaign through which she raised money that could cover his tux and flight to Nebraska, as well as their prom night dinner. Kashuv opted to wear a suit instead.

Ibrahimova said she was impressed with Kashuv for continuing to fight even though the establishment media were almost exclusively carrying the “really loud” voices of the pro-gun control side but “not so much the conservative side.”

Yet Kashuv keeps fighting.

AWR Hawkins is an award-winning Second Amendment columnist for Breitbart News, the host of the Breitbart podcast Bullets with AWR Hawkins, and the writer/curator of Down Range with AWR Hawkins, a weekly newsletter focused on all things Second Amendment, also for Breitbart News. He is the political analyst for Armed American Radio. Follow him on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com. Sign up to get Down Range at breitbart.com/downrange.Broward County Public Schools Superintendent Robert Runcie heard the outrage of parents and students Wednesday night during a forum to discuss school safety in the aftermath of confessed shooter Nikolas Cruz’s rampage on February 14 that killed 17 and left 17 more wounded.

Runcie admitted the district was going through a “journey” after the shooting, saying, “We hadn’t really thought how we would plan for something like this. We are in some ways learning as we go through the process.”

Angry students and parents lashed out at Runcie and a panel of school officials – several calling for his dismissal and the election of a new school board – during the forum held just one week after the board unanimously voted not to allow armed school employees per a new state law.

Parents and students were allowed one minute each during the forum to address their concerns about the security of the district’s schools and its school disciplinary policies. Many expressed outrage that Cruz – despite an extensive history of violence and threats – had never been expelled or arrested. Without those red flags appearing in a background check to warn authorities, the shooter was able to obtain a firearm.

Runcie also admitted families of the shooting victims have not received “the kind of outreach that they should have” from district officials.

Most who attended the emotionally charged forum were not only enraged that Cruz was able to accomplish the shooting of so many individuals without interference by law enforcement, but also that school officials remain unresponsive to security concerns in the district’s schools, even after the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas (MSD) High School.

One MSD student confronted Runcie with his assertion that he has attended four Broward County schools and only saw Runcie for the first time recently at a gathering for a shooting victim.

“You said we don’t need to arm teachers with guns, we need to arm them with more money in their pockets,” the student said. “Yet teacher salaries have been frozen for the past eight years or so, and you have been cutting their benefits year after year.”

“My question for you is, ‘Did you do everything in your power before the tragedy happened at MSD to prevent it from happening, and will you do everything in your power to prevent this from happening in every other Broward County school?’” he asked.

“My answer to that is, unequivocally, yes,” Runcie replied.

Several parents were outraged that the school district ignored offers of free security upgrades prior to the shooting on February 14. Other parents and students asserted security was inconsistent across schools in the district.

Two female students from Charles Flanagan High School in Pembroke Pines described a fearful situation when a student with a knife threatened 20 fellow students. The two students said the school failed to address their concerns about the incident and that the student with the knife was suspended, but then simply returned to school.

Another student said the new clear backpack policy put in place since the shooting was not being enforced. She said she decided to test security by also bringing to school a side bag that was not clear. The student told school officials at the forum that security personnel never even checked her side bag.

“Why do we have clear backpacks if they aren’t being enforced?” she asked. “Why do we have BSO everywhere if they aren’t doing their job and just seem to be hanging around our campus?”

Many parents and students were angry that they received no responses from Runcie or his office to their emails containing concerns or questions.

While two students from the district’s PROMISE program – an Obama-era program aimed at ending the “school-to-prison pipeline” for black, Hispanic, LGBT, and disabled students – defended the program as one that gave them a second chance, many at the forum wanted answers to why Cruz had never been expelled or arrested.

Runcie has said assertions that his PROMISE program is connected to the shooting are “fake news” because Cruz did not participate in that program.

RealClearInvestigations, however, reported Cruz was enrolled in the district’s Behavior Intervention Program – a program for students “returning from residential Juvenile Justice Programs,” including students “convicted of a serious crime such as: rape, murder, attempted murder, sexual battery or firearm related” and those whose behavior off campus would qualify them for expulsion.

At the school safety forum, Runcie said he has no knowledge of Cruz’s being involved in the Behavior Intervention Program.

Student Support Initiatives Executive Director Michaelle Pope described the behavioral support programs as “complex.” She said the programs in place are in compliance with federal and state laws, local law enforcement, and child protection agencies. Pope added the school district’s policies are also monitored by external “child advocacy” groups such as the ACLU, the NAACP, gay-rights advocacy group Human Rights Campaign, and the Southern Poverty Law Center.

After describing both the PROMISE and Behavior Intervention Programs, Pope said, “There is a very different process that must occur if a child has a disability.”

Pope said students identified as “disabled” are treated differently – via state statute – when they have behavior problems.

“Students with disabilities cannot be suspended or expelled from school for more than ten days per year without the provision of a free and appropriate public education,” she continued at the safety forum.

The Weekly Standard reported last week that Pope, referring to Cruz, who was in a special education program, said, “This is not an average student. He has a disability.”

One student announced his belief that only more restrictive gun control laws would bring about greater safety. When he asked Runcie how greater gun control could be enacted, Runcie encouraged him to register to vote and vote for people who have been calling for restrictions on gun rights.Broward County Public Schools Superintendent Robert Runcie heard the outrage of parents and students Wednesday night during a forum to discuss school safety in the aftermath of confessed shooter Nikolas Cruz’s rampage on February 14 that killed 17 and left 17 more wounded.

Runcie admitted the district was going through a “journey” after the shooting, saying, “We hadn’t really thought how we would plan for something like this. We are in some ways learning as we go through the process.”

Angry students and parents lashed out at Runcie and a panel of school officials – several calling for his dismissal and the election of a new school board – during the forum held just one week after the board unanimously voted not to allow armed school employees per a new state law.

Parents and students were allowed one minute each during the forum to address their concerns about the security of the district’s schools and its school disciplinary policies. Many expressed outrage that Cruz – despite an extensive history of violence and threats – had never been expelled or arrested. Without those red flags appearing in a background check to warn authorities, the shooter was able to obtain a firearm.

Runcie also admitted families of the shooting victims have not received “the kind of outreach that they should have” from district officials.

Most who attended the emotionally charged forum were not only enraged that Cruz was able to accomplish the shooting of so many individuals without interference by law enforcement, but also that school officials remain unresponsive to security concerns in the district’s schools, even after the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas (MSD) High School.

One MSD student confronted Runcie with his assertion that he has attended four Broward County schools and only saw Runcie for the first time recently at a gathering for a shooting victim.

“You said we don’t need to arm teachers with guns, we need to arm them with more money in their pockets,” the student said. “Yet teacher salaries have been frozen for the past eight years or so, and you have been cutting their benefits year after year.”

“My question for you is, ‘Did you do everything in your power before the tragedy happened at MSD to prevent it from happening, and will you do everything in your power to prevent this from happening in every other Broward County school?’” he asked.

“My answer to that is, unequivocally, yes,” Runcie replied.

Several parents were outraged that the school district ignored offers of free security upgrades prior to the shooting on February 14. Other parents and students asserted security was inconsistent across schools in the district.

Two female students from Charles Flanagan High School in Pembroke Pines described a fearful situation when a student with a knife threatened 20 fellow students. The two students said the school failed to address their concerns about the incident and that the student with the knife was suspended, but then simply returned to school.

Another student said the new clear backpack policy put in place since the shooting was not being enforced. She said she decided to test security by also bringing to school a side bag that was not clear. The student told school officials at the forum that security personnel never even checked her side bag.

“Why do we have clear backpacks if they aren’t being enforced?” she asked. “Why do we have BSO everywhere if they aren’t doing their job and just seem to be hanging around our campus?”

Many parents and students were angry that they received no responses from Runcie or his office to their emails containing concerns or questions.

While two students from the district’s PROMISE program – an Obama-era program aimed at ending the “school-to-prison pipeline” for black, Hispanic, LGBT, and disabled students – defended the program as one that gave them a second chance, many at the forum wanted answers to why Cruz had never been expelled or arrested.

Runcie has said assertions that his PROMISE program is connected to the shooting are “fake news” because Cruz did not participate in that program.

RealClearInvestigations, however, reported Cruz was enrolled in the district’s Behavior Intervention Program – a program for students “returning from residential Juvenile Justice Programs,” including students “convicted of a serious crime such as: rape, murder, attempted murder, sexual battery or firearm related” and those whose behavior off campus would qualify them for expulsion.

At the school safety forum, Runcie said he has no knowledge of Cruz’s being involved in the Behavior Intervention Program.

Student Support Initiatives Executive Director Michaelle Pope described the behavioral support programs as “complex.” She said the programs in place are in compliance with federal and state laws, local law enforcement, and child protection agencies. Pope added the school district’s policies are also monitored by external “child advocacy” groups such as the ACLU, the NAACP, gay-rights advocacy group Human Rights Campaign, and the Southern Poverty Law Center.

After describing both the PROMISE and Behavior Intervention Programs, Pope said, “There is a very different process that must occur if a child has a disability.”

Pope said students identified as “disabled” are treated differently – via state statute – when they have behavior problems.

“Students with disabilities cannot be suspended or expelled from school for more than ten days per year without the provision of a free and appropriate public education,” she continued at the safety forum.

The Weekly Standard reported last week that Pope, referring to Cruz, who was in a special education program, said, “This is not an average student. He has a disability.”

One student announced his belief that only more restrictive gun control laws would bring about greater safety. When he asked Runcie how greater gun control could be enacted, Runcie encouraged him to register to vote and vote for people who have been calling for restrictions on gun rights.“When you sue your employer… You’re saying to everybody I don’t want to play football, I want to fight the NFL… Colin Kaepernick doesn’t want to play in the NFL he wants to be a martyr” — @WhitlockJason thinks Colin Kaepernick’s NFL career is over pic.twitter.com/vSZ1D9gyA2

Former NFL quarterback Trent Dilfer discussed free agent Colin Kaepernick Wednesday on Fox Sports 1’s “Speak for Yourself,” explaining the activist quarterback has two knocks against him that are likely keeping him from being in the NFL at the age of 30 — his activism and most recent film from 2016 that shows “disastrous” play.

“An NFL organization doesn’t want an activist — they want a quarterback,” Dilfer, who played 13 years in the NFL, pointed out. “[Kaepernick] is viewed by the country more now as an activist than a quarterback. Right or wrong, that’s how he’s viewed.”

The NFL analyst continued, “His tape is bad. The last year of tape is bad. He had the yips. I’ve had the yips. I’ve had them throwing and I’ve had them putting. He couldn’t throw it from here to the camera towards the end accurately. He was so locked up as a quarterback. … The tape doesn’t lie. And to get through the activist part to the football part, you then have to battle that last year of tape — which isn’t very good either.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrent“When you sue your employer… You’re saying to everybody I don’t want to play football, I want to fight the NFL… Colin Kaepernick doesn’t want to play in the NFL he wants to be a martyr” — @WhitlockJason thinks Colin Kaepernick’s NFL career is over pic.twitter.com/vSZ1D9gyA2

Former NFL quarterback Trent Dilfer discussed free agent Colin Kaepernick Wednesday on Fox Sports 1’s “Speak for Yourself,” explaining the activist quarterback has two knocks against him that are likely keeping him from being in the NFL at the age of 30 — his activism and most recent film from 2016 that shows “disastrous” play.

“An NFL organization doesn’t want an activist — they want a quarterback,” Dilfer, who played 13 years in the NFL, pointed out. “[Kaepernick] is viewed by the country more now as an activist than a quarterback. Right or wrong, that’s how he’s viewed.”

The NFL analyst continued, “His tape is bad. The last year of tape is bad. He had the yips. I’ve had the yips. I’ve had them throwing and I’ve had them putting. He couldn’t throw it from here to the camera towards the end accurately. He was so locked up as a quarterback. … The tape doesn’t lie. And to get through the activist part to the football part, you then have to battle that last year of tape — which isn’t very good either.”

Follow Trent Baker on Twitter @MagnifiTrentFormer Vice President Joe Biden took a slap at the National Football League by saying it has not done enough for the #MeToo sexual harassment movement, even after the league kicked in to help host Biden’s new “Courage” awards.

Biden appeared at the first “Biden Courage Awards” event held in New York City at the Russian Tea Room on April 18 where he officiated over the first-ever award of his eponymous prize to recognize “student heroes,” according to The Hollywood Reporter.

During the night’s presentation, Biden read a congratulatory letter from NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell noting that the NFL was helping to sponsor the awards. But even as Barack Obama’s number two man thanked the NFL for its contributions, Biden also criticized the league.

At one point, Biden exclaimed, “we are the leading edge in the world in terms of changing attitudes towards women,” and then added that we are at a “moment where the consciousness of the American people has been awakened,” and that we are “ripping the Band-Aid off the dirty little secret that’s existed in this country for years.”

But then he took an aside aimed at the NFL.

“By the way, the NFL — thank you for your contribution,” Biden said from the podium. “But Roger, you’ve gotta do a hell of a lot more than you’re doing. I really mean it: The contribution is significant, and they mean well,” he said to the cheering crowd.

The former vice president and Delaware senator scolded professional sports for the “lip service” given to the #MeToo movement.

“I’ve called on all the major sports leagues to take part [in the It’s On Us campaign] — not just lip service, but actually, actually make a price be paid,” Biden bragged. “Until the price is paid, men will continue to think it’s OK. [They’ll] say, ‘Well, it wasn’t rape. All I did was grab her and bend her arm down and say, ‘What are you doing?’ I just slapped her across the face. What’s the problem?’ The problem is it generates conduct beyond that that’s even worse.”

Biden later went on to slam “fat, ugly men with power.”

Alluding to Hollywood movie mogul and sexual assault suspect Harvey Weinstein, Biden added, “this is not about sex, this is about power…usually fat, ugly men with power using their power as you saw with that creep.” After that jab, Biden averred that “I shouldn’t be saying this, I’m a former Vice President. I should be more in decorum.”

Biden ended his remarks warning that “silence is complicity” and “silence is consent” for sexual assault.

In attendance at the former VP’s harangue were such celebrities as actors Connie Britton, Adam Devine, and Matt McGorry as well as magazine editors such as Elaine Welteroth (Teen Vogue), Michelle Promaulayko (Cosmopolitan), and Jay Fielden (Esquire), the Reporter said.

A video of the night’s proceedings can be seen at Cosmopolitan’s Periscope page.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Former Vice President Joe Biden took a slap at the National Football League by saying it has not done enough for the #MeToo sexual harassment movement, even after the league kicked in to help host Biden’s new “Courage” awards.

Biden appeared at the first “Biden Courage Awards” event held in New York City at the Russian Tea Room on April 18 where he officiated over the first-ever award of his eponymous prize to recognize “student heroes,” according to The Hollywood Reporter.

During the night’s presentation, Biden read a congratulatory letter from NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell noting that the NFL was helping to sponsor the awards. But even as Barack Obama’s number two man thanked the NFL for its contributions, Biden also criticized the league.

At one point, Biden exclaimed, “we are the leading edge in the world in terms of changing attitudes towards women,” and then added that we are at a “moment where the consciousness of the American people has been awakened,” and that we are “ripping the Band-Aid off the dirty little secret that’s existed in this country for years.”

But then he took an aside aimed at the NFL.

“By the way, the NFL — thank you for your contribution,” Biden said from the podium. “But Roger, you’ve gotta do a hell of a lot more than you’re doing. I really mean it: The contribution is significant, and they mean well,” he said to the cheering crowd.

The former vice president and Delaware senator scolded professional sports for the “lip service” given to the #MeToo movement.

“I’ve called on all the major sports leagues to take part [in the It’s On Us campaign] — not just lip service, but actually, actually make a price be paid,” Biden bragged. “Until the price is paid, men will continue to think it’s OK. [They’ll] say, ‘Well, it wasn’t rape. All I did was grab her and bend her arm down and say, ‘What are you doing?’ I just slapped her across the face. What’s the problem?’ The problem is it generates conduct beyond that that’s even worse.”

Biden later went on to slam “fat, ugly men with power.”

Alluding to Hollywood movie mogul and sexual assault suspect Harvey Weinstein, Biden added, “this is not about sex, this is about power…usually fat, ugly men with power using their power as you saw with that creep.” After that jab, Biden averred that “I shouldn’t be saying this, I’m a former Vice President. I should be more in decorum.”

Biden ended his remarks warning that “silence is complicity” and “silence is consent” for sexual assault.

In attendance at the former VP’s harangue were such celebrities as actors Connie Britton, Adam Devine, and Matt McGorry as well as magazine editors such as Elaine Welteroth (Teen Vogue), Michelle Promaulayko (Cosmopolitan), and Jay Fielden (Esquire), the Reporter said.

A video of the night’s proceedings can be seen at Cosmopolitan’s Periscope page.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.ESPN is sending its political/sports site FiveThirtyEight over to the ABC News, perhaps to blunt criticism that ESPN is too political.

The blog, famously helmed by statistician Nate Silver, was brought to ESPN from the New York Times in 2013, and launched as an ESPN feature in 2014. But with pressure on the cable network to get away from politics, the data-driven sports, politics, and culture site has to go, according to Awful Announcing.

Silver made his announcement of the move on Twitter:

Some personal news… FiveThirtyEight is leaving ESPN… but not going very far. Our new home is ABC News! We're super excited to work with @ABC and combine our strengths with theirs as we tackle the 2018 and 2020 elections and other news stories. — Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) April 17, 2018

Silver later added that ESPN will still promote any of his posts that focus on sports.

ABC News President James Goldston also released a statement praising the “brilliant” Nate Silver:

I have exciting news to share. Nate Silver and his brilliant FiveThirtyEight team are joining ABC News from ESPN. At a time when politics has never been more extraordinary, fascinating, and confusing, FiveThirtyEight will help us bring even more clarity and insight to what’s really going on. They’ve won numerous awards, including Data Journalism Site of the Year in 2016, with their unique blend of creative smarts, compelling and witty journalism and statistical analysis. And I am hopeful that the combination of their skills and ours will lead to even more great work in the years ahead.Of course, FiveThirtyEight is much more than just politics, and we will be working closely with them and with ESPN on their sports, science and tech verticals too.

But Awful Announcing notes that this move may actually be a bit of a defeat for ESPN. The sports cable network was making noises about selling the blog, but by just transferring it over to ABC News, perhaps there were no buyers.

“Given that ESPN was reportedly exploring more dramatic options such as an outright sale or spinoff of FiveThirtyEight, it seems possible that offers there weren’t at the level they hoped and it made more sense to keep the site within the larger Disney corporate empire, but just transfer it over to ABC News,” Awful Announcing’s Andrew Bucholtz speculated.

ESPN has also shuttered several of its other personality-driven blogs, so shuttling off Silver’s signature site to the ABC News website may be part of that internal re-tooling. Bucholtz notes that this move is just another example of the death of the “old ESPN” and the birth of the new one under new president Jimmy Pitaro.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.ESPN is sending its political/sports site FiveThirtyEight over to the ABC News, perhaps to blunt criticism that ESPN is too political.

The blog, famously helmed by statistician Nate Silver, was brought to ESPN from the New York Times in 2013, and launched as an ESPN feature in 2014. But with pressure on the cable network to get away from politics, the data-driven sports, politics, and culture site has to go, according to Awful Announcing.

Silver made his announcement of the move on Twitter:

Some personal news… FiveThirtyEight is leaving ESPN… but not going very far. Our new home is ABC News! We're super excited to work with @ABC and combine our strengths with theirs as we tackle the 2018 and 2020 elections and other news stories. — Nate Silver (@NateSilver538) April 17, 2018

Silver later added that ESPN will still promote any of his posts that focus on sports.

ABC News President James Goldston also released a statement praising the “brilliant” Nate Silver:

I have exciting news to share. Nate Silver and his brilliant FiveThirtyEight team are joining ABC News from ESPN. At a time when politics has never been more extraordinary, fascinating, and confusing, FiveThirtyEight will help us bring even more clarity and insight to what’s really going on. They’ve won numerous awards, including Data Journalism Site of the Year in 2016, with their unique blend of creative smarts, compelling and witty journalism and statistical analysis. And I am hopeful that the combination of their skills and ours will lead to even more great work in the years ahead.Of course, FiveThirtyEight is much more than just politics, and we will be working closely with them and with ESPN on their sports, science and tech verticals too.

But Awful Announcing notes that this move may actually be a bit of a defeat for ESPN. The sports cable network was making noises about selling the blog, but by just transferring it over to ABC News, perhaps there were no buyers.

“Given that ESPN was reportedly exploring more dramatic options such as an outright sale or spinoff of FiveThirtyEight, it seems possible that offers there weren’t at the level they hoped and it made more sense to keep the site within the larger Disney corporate empire, but just transfer it over to ABC News,” Awful Announcing’s Andrew Bucholtz speculated.

ESPN has also shuttered several of its other personality-driven blogs, so shuttling off Silver’s signature site to the ABC News website may be part of that internal re-tooling. Bucholtz notes that this move is just another example of the death of the “old ESPN” and the birth of the new one under new president Jimmy Pitaro.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Comedian Jay Mohr came out swinging against Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar this week after she celebrated Barbara Bush’s death in a series of tweets.

Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar is facing a backlash this week over a series of tweets she posted in celebration of former First Lady Barbara Bush’s death.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F**k outta here with your nice words,” Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday.

In another tweet, Jarrar said that the news made her “happy” because Barbara Bush’s death likely made George W. Bush upset.

In a tweet directed at Fresno State President Joseph Castro, comedian Jay Mohr called for Jarrar to be fired for her tweets. “COWARD,” he wrote. “I’m a comedian, huge free speech advocate. Randa Jarrar should be fired 4 her sheer arrogance. A garbage person that cannot possibly be shielded through your terrible +weak PC

statement today. Protecting her hate isn’t why you make 300k a year.”

. @JosephICastro – COWARD I’m a comedian, huge free speech advocate. Randa Jarrar should be fired 4 her sheer arrogance. A garbage person that cannot possibly be shielded through your terrible +weak PC

statement today. Protecting her hate isn’t why you make 300k a year. — Jay Mohr (@jaymohr37) April 18, 2018

Mohr currently hosts the popular Mohr Stories podcast.

An analysis published by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education(FIRE) explained that it would be unconstitutional for Fresno State, a public institution, to publish Jarrar for her tweets.

“Fresno State correctly acknowledges that Jarrar’s tweets were made as a private citizen. As such, and because they touched upon a matter of public concern, Jarrar’s tweets are unquestionably protected speech under the First Amendment and Fresno State has no power to censor, punish, or terminate Jarrar for them,” Adam Steinbaugh wrote.

The Foundation for Individual Rights in Education explains that there is a long precedent in the courts that establishes that employees of government institutions may not be disciplined for speech.Comedian Jay Mohr came out swinging against Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar this week after she celebrated Barbara Bush’s death in a series of tweets.

Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar is facing a backlash this week over a series of tweets she posted in celebration of former First Lady Barbara Bush’s death.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F**k outta here with your nice words,” Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday.

In another tweet, Jarrar said that the news made her “happy” because Barbara Bush’s death likely made George W. Bush upset.

In a tweet directed at Fresno State President Joseph Castro, comedian Jay Mohr called for Jarrar to be fired for her tweets. “COWARD,” he wrote. “I’m a comedian, huge free speech advocate. Randa Jarrar should be fired 4 her sheer arrogance. A garbage person that cannot possibly be shielded through your terrible +weak PC

statement today. Protecting her hate isn’t why you make 300k a year.”

. @JosephICastro – COWARD I’m a comedian, huge free speech advocate. Randa Jarrar should be fired 4 her sheer arrogance. A garbage person that cannot possibly be shielded through your terrible +weak PC

statement today. Protecting her hate isn’t why you make 300k a year. — Jay Mohr (@jaymohr37) April 18, 2018

Mohr currently hosts the popular Mohr Stories podcast.

An analysis published by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education(FIRE) explained that it would be unconstitutional for Fresno State, a public institution, to publish Jarrar for her tweets.

“Fresno State correctly acknowledges that Jarrar’s tweets were made as a private citizen. As such, and because they touched upon a matter of public concern, Jarrar’s tweets are unquestionably protected speech under the First Amendment and Fresno State has no power to censor, punish, or terminate Jarrar for them,” Adam Steinbaugh wrote.

The Foundation for Individual Rights in Education explains that there is a long precedent in the courts that establishes that employees of government institutions may not be disciplined for speech.Fresno State announced on Wednesday that they are opening an investigation into Professor Randa Jarrar, who celebrated former First Lady Barbara Bush’s death earlier this week.

Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar is now facing an investigation from her institution after she posted a series of tweets celebrating the death of former First Lady Barbara Bush.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F**k outta here with your nice words,” Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday.

In a separate tweet, Jarrar said that the news made her “happy” because Barbara Bush’s death likely made George W. Bush upset.

In a press conference on Wednesday, Fresno State Provost Lynette Zelezny announced that the university was launching an investigation into Jarrar.

“When we talk about freedom of speech and the words that we use, we are trying to encourage, here at the university, words that are respectful,” Zelezny argued during the press conference.

Because Fresno State is a public institution, it would likely be unconstitutional for the university to discipline or fire Jarrar over her tweets. The Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) published an analysis on Wednesday explaining that Fresno State cannot legally discipline Jarrar for her tweets.

“Fresno State correctly acknowledges that Jarrar’s tweets were made as a private citizen. As such, and because they touched upon a matter of public concern, Jarrar’s tweets are unquestionably protected speech under the First Amendment and Fresno State has no power to censor, punish, or terminate Jarrar for them,” Adam Steinbaugh wrote.

FIRE cited a 1983 Supreme Court decision that concluded that government employees cannot be disciplined for engaging in speech. In an analysis, FIRE explained that the law is well established on this matter.

The law is well-established that employees of government institutions like [a public university] retain a First Amendment right to speak as private citizens on matters of public concern and may not be disciplined or retaliated against for their constitutionally protected expression unless the government employer demonstrates that the expression hindered “the effective and efficient fulfillment of its responsibilities to the public.”

FIRE is concerned that the investigation into Jarrar will serve to stifle speech. In a 2016 column, Steinbaugh wrote that an improper investigation, by itself, could have a chilling effect on a community’s willingness to express controversial thoughts and ideas.Fresno State announced on Wednesday that they are opening an investigation into Professor Randa Jarrar, who celebrated former First Lady Barbara Bush’s death earlier this week.

Fresno State Professor Randa Jarrar is now facing an investigation from her institution after she posted a series of tweets celebrating the death of former First Lady Barbara Bush.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F**k outta here with your nice words,” Jarrar tweeted on Tuesday.

In a separate tweet, Jarrar said that the news made her “happy” because Barbara Bush’s death likely made George W. Bush upset.

In a press conference on Wednesday, Fresno State Provost Lynette Zelezny announced that the university was launching an investigation into Jarrar.

“When we talk about freedom of speech and the words that we use, we are trying to encourage, here at the university, words that are respectful,” Zelezny argued during the press conference.

Because Fresno State is a public institution, it would likely be unconstitutional for the university to discipline or fire Jarrar over her tweets. The Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) published an analysis on Wednesday explaining that Fresno State cannot legally discipline Jarrar for her tweets.

“Fresno State correctly acknowledges that Jarrar’s tweets were made as a private citizen. As such, and because they touched upon a matter of public concern, Jarrar’s tweets are unquestionably protected speech under the First Amendment and Fresno State has no power to censor, punish, or terminate Jarrar for them,” Adam Steinbaugh wrote.

FIRE cited a 1983 Supreme Court decision that concluded that government employees cannot be disciplined for engaging in speech. In an analysis, FIRE explained that the law is well established on this matter.

The law is well-established that employees of government institutions like [a public university] retain a First Amendment right to speak as private citizens on matters of public concern and may not be disciplined or retaliated against for their constitutionally protected expression unless the government employer demonstrates that the expression hindered “the effective and efficient fulfillment of its responsibilities to the public.”

FIRE is concerned that the investigation into Jarrar will serve to stifle speech. In a 2016 column, Steinbaugh wrote that an improper investigation, by itself, could have a chilling effect on a community’s willingness to express controversial thoughts and ideas.Feminist scholar Julia Coffey of the University of Newcastle in Australia was shocked when she learned that men care about their physical appearances.

In an article for the academic journal Social Theory and Health, Coffey wrote about her research on “current embodiments of masculinity” and its relationship to the way in which men view their own bodies.

“While appearance and ‘beauty’ are typically constructed as feminine concerns and important to women’s constructions of identity, these examples show that a concern for the body’s appearance is also an important component of current embodiments of masculinity,” Coffey wrote.

In an interview, Coffey expanded upon her research, explaining that the young male subjects of her surveys didn’t think that body image was a male issue.

One thing I was really surprised by in my work is that even though many young men described feeling “pressure” around how their bodies looked, they thought this was something that other men didn’t go through as well. Time and time again they would describe it as a “woman’s issue,” not something men worry about. I think this is one way we can look at perceptions around gender norms and see how inadequate they often are for understanding what people are actually going through.

The article, which was originally highlighted by the New Real Peer Review Twitter account, was penned by University of Newcastle Professor Julia Coffey, who focuses a large portion of her research on body image.

Feminist scholar makes a groundbreaking discovery: Men care about how they look too. (@Uni_Newcastle) https://t.co/UZi0nUyOBU pic.twitter.com/GAGXPJp6YP — New Real Peer Review (@RealPeerReview) April 18, 2018

Notice the use of the term “embodiments of masculinity.” The term, as used here, refers to the social construction of gender. Coffey writes as if to say that men are currently conditioned to care about their appearance. Like most scholars in the social sciences, Coffey seems willfully ready to ignore the science of sexual selection, which explains why human males and females desire certain physical attributes that would allow them to naturally appear more attractive to members of the opposite sex.Feminist scholar Julia Coffey of the University of Newcastle in Australia was shocked when she learned that men care about their physical appearances.

In an article for the academic journal Social Theory and Health, Coffey wrote about her research on “current embodiments of masculinity” and its relationship to the way in which men view their own bodies.

“While appearance and ‘beauty’ are typically constructed as feminine concerns and important to women’s constructions of identity, these examples show that a concern for the body’s appearance is also an important component of current embodiments of masculinity,” Coffey wrote.

In an interview, Coffey expanded upon her research, explaining that the young male subjects of her surveys didn’t think that body image was a male issue.

One thing I was really surprised by in my work is that even though many young men described feeling “pressure” around how their bodies looked, they thought this was something that other men didn’t go through as well. Time and time again they would describe it as a “woman’s issue,” not something men worry about. I think this is one way we can look at perceptions around gender norms and see how inadequate they often are for understanding what people are actually going through.

The article, which was originally highlighted by the New Real Peer Review Twitter account, was penned by University of Newcastle Professor Julia Coffey, who focuses a large portion of her research on body image.

Feminist scholar makes a groundbreaking discovery: Men care about how they look too. (@Uni_Newcastle) https://t.co/UZi0nUyOBU pic.twitter.com/GAGXPJp6YP — New Real Peer Review (@RealPeerReview) April 18, 2018

Notice the use of the term “embodiments of masculinity.” The term, as used here, refers to the social construction of gender. Coffey writes as if to say that men are currently conditioned to care about their appearance. Like most scholars in the social sciences, Coffey seems willfully ready to ignore the science of sexual selection, which explains why human males and females desire certain physical attributes that would allow them to naturally appear more attractive to members of the opposite sex.PHILADELPHIA (AP) — It was a surreal scene that is part of daily life for many black Americans and minorities, an everyday moment gone wrong, ending in complete humiliation.

Two black men were handcuffed and arrested at a Starbucks, setting off a national uproar after the incident was captured on video. A worker complained the men were trespassing, but they maintained they were doing what thousands of people do in the popular coffee shops across the country — waiting to meet a friend.

The exchange was a fresh reminder that, five decades after the end of legal segregation, to be black in America is to be constantly challenged in certain spaces in ways white Americans scarcely have to consider, simply to get through the day without being hassled.

The term used to describe encounters like the one at the Starbucks is “retail racism,” also known as “shopping while black.” It happens when minority customers are treated differently than white customers through a variety of indignities and slights, such as being refused service, falsely accused of shoplifting or reported to security or police over something mundane.

“It is about a perception that black people are undesirable in a given location,” said Princeton University African-American studies professor Imani Perry. “Having to perform being non-threatening … it’s exhausting, and it is a commonplace expectation.”

Starbucks announced Tuesday that it would close its 8,000 U.S. stores for several hours next month to conduct racial-bias training for its nearly 175,000 workers. The company — known as an inclusive and progressive workplace — has been responsive in the wake of the April 12 incident, and CEO Kevin Johnson came to Philadelphia and met with the two men who were arrested. Within hours, Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney condemned the incident, saying it “appears to exemplify what racial discrimination looks like in 2018,” and prosecutors declined to bring charges against the men.

Research and surveys show that “retail racism” remains prevalent, and many black Americans have had their own “Starbucks moment” in establishments across the country. It’s a phenomenon not limited by race, age, or gender, affecting even billionaire Oprah Winfrey — turned away at a Paris Hermes shop in 2003 — and former President Barack Obama, who spoke from the White House in the wake of the George Zimmerman acquittal in 2013 about his experiences as a younger man of being followed in stores and doors locking as he passed by.

The Starbucks encounter wasn’t shocking or surprising for black men like Ameen Akbar. Instead, it felt routine.

Bald-headed, bearded, with a Muslim name, Akbar has sensed being followed in high-end stores when he has worn a hoodie or Timberland boots to shop on weekends. He’s aware of the different look he gets in the same parking lot when he goes to work in a suit, versus showing up in more comfortable clothing.

“I’m hyper-aware of when I’m in these spaces and what that impact can be and how I say things,” said Akbar, 40, a Philadelphia native. “If you’ve been doing it for a lifetime, it becomes part of who you are.”

In a 2016 Gallup poll, 52 percent of blacks and 17 percent of whites said they perceived discrimination in stores downtown or in the shopping mall.

A study last year by Case Western professor Cassi Pittman found that such practices require black shoppers to navigate being seen as a threat to avoid harassment, humiliation or harm. The study also found that this discrimination changes the experience of shopping and can change the meaning and status attached to goods when they are sought out or owned by racial minorities.

At the core of the Black Lives Matter movement is the pattern of what the group sees as a criminalization of black people for doing everyday things. The movement received the most attention for protests following police shootings of unarmed black men, but its main mission focuses on erasing the underlying, systemic racism at the root of encounters like those at Starbucks.

As she watched a video of the arrests at the Starbucks, Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrisse Cullors thought immediately about the dignity of the two men during the incident.

“And I just watched those men acquiesce to being arrested, the knowing that they have to cooperate and they couldn’t do anything else about it,” she said.

The Starbucks incident set off outrage in large part because it was captured on video by a customer, but many such slights are undocumented and unacknowledged. In Philadelphia, the exchange was marked not only with video proof, but by the indignation and attempted intervention of a pair of white bystanders.

The escalation of mundane encounters for African-Americans is not limited to their experience as consumers.

On the same day as the Starbucks arrests, a 14-year-old black boy who got lost in a Detroit suburban neighborhood on his way to school was shot at by a white homeowner after knocking on the man’s door to ask for directions. Recorded police shootings of unarmed black men in places like Ferguson, Baltimore and Charleston have had a similar dynamic.

Katie Adams said she has spent hours at her local Starbucks, sometimes drinking only free water — without incident.

“I’ve never been refused service for not making a purchase,” said Adams, a 32-year-old mom and student, who is white and lives in Hanford, California, outside of Fresno. “If my skin color was different, I feel like I would be approached.”

Adams said she was upset after watching the Starbucks video, and said the incident was “unfair and ridiculous.” Still, as a mini-storage employee, she said she has been aware of her own bias at times in dealing with customers but works to keep it in check.

“A lot of times I can feel myself saying, ‘I don’t want to rent to this person,'” Adams said. “As a white person, I have to tell myself, ‘This is a regular person, just like me.’ There’s no reason for me to assume anything until I’ve spoken with them and gotten to know them a little better. But as much as you don’t want to pre-judge someone it’s there. You’re going to do it, whether you act on it or not.”

___

Whack is The Associated Press’ national writer for race and ethnicity. Follow her work on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/emarvelousPHILADELPHIA (AP) — It was a surreal scene that is part of daily life for many black Americans and minorities, an everyday moment gone wrong, ending in complete humiliation.

Two black men were handcuffed and arrested at a Starbucks, setting off a national uproar after the incident was captured on video. A worker complained the men were trespassing, but they maintained they were doing what thousands of people do in the popular coffee shops across the country — waiting to meet a friend.

The exchange was a fresh reminder that, five decades after the end of legal segregation, to be black in America is to be constantly challenged in certain spaces in ways white Americans scarcely have to consider, simply to get through the day without being hassled.

The term used to describe encounters like the one at the Starbucks is “retail racism,” also known as “shopping while black.” It happens when minority customers are treated differently than white customers through a variety of indignities and slights, such as being refused service, falsely accused of shoplifting or reported to security or police over something mundane.

“It is about a perception that black people are undesirable in a given location,” said Princeton University African-American studies professor Imani Perry. “Having to perform being non-threatening … it’s exhausting, and it is a commonplace expectation.”

Starbucks announced Tuesday that it would close its 8,000 U.S. stores for several hours next month to conduct racial-bias training for its nearly 175,000 workers. The company — known as an inclusive and progressive workplace — has been responsive in the wake of the April 12 incident, and CEO Kevin Johnson came to Philadelphia and met with the two men who were arrested. Within hours, Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney condemned the incident, saying it “appears to exemplify what racial discrimination looks like in 2018,” and prosecutors declined to bring charges against the men.

Research and surveys show that “retail racism” remains prevalent, and many black Americans have had their own “Starbucks moment” in establishments across the country. It’s a phenomenon not limited by race, age, or gender, affecting even billionaire Oprah Winfrey — turned away at a Paris Hermes shop in 2003 — and former President Barack Obama, who spoke from the White House in the wake of the George Zimmerman acquittal in 2013 about his experiences as a younger man of being followed in stores and doors locking as he passed by.

The Starbucks encounter wasn’t shocking or surprising for black men like Ameen Akbar. Instead, it felt routine.

Bald-headed, bearded, with a Muslim name, Akbar has sensed being followed in high-end stores when he has worn a hoodie or Timberland boots to shop on weekends. He’s aware of the different look he gets in the same parking lot when he goes to work in a suit, versus showing up in more comfortable clothing.

“I’m hyper-aware of when I’m in these spaces and what that impact can be and how I say things,” said Akbar, 40, a Philadelphia native. “If you’ve been doing it for a lifetime, it becomes part of who you are.”

In a 2016 Gallup poll, 52 percent of blacks and 17 percent of whites said they perceived discrimination in stores downtown or in the shopping mall.

A study last year by Case Western professor Cassi Pittman found that such practices require black shoppers to navigate being seen as a threat to avoid harassment, humiliation or harm. The study also found that this discrimination changes the experience of shopping and can change the meaning and status attached to goods when they are sought out or owned by racial minorities.

At the core of the Black Lives Matter movement is the pattern of what the group sees as a criminalization of black people for doing everyday things. The movement received the most attention for protests following police shootings of unarmed black men, but its main mission focuses on erasing the underlying, systemic racism at the root of encounters like those at Starbucks.

As she watched a video of the arrests at the Starbucks, Black Lives Matter co-founder Patrisse Cullors thought immediately about the dignity of the two men during the incident.

“And I just watched those men acquiesce to being arrested, the knowing that they have to cooperate and they couldn’t do anything else about it,” she said.

The Starbucks incident set off outrage in large part because it was captured on video by a customer, but many such slights are undocumented and unacknowledged. In Philadelphia, the exchange was marked not only with video proof, but by the indignation and attempted intervention of a pair of white bystanders.

The escalation of mundane encounters for African-Americans is not limited to their experience as consumers.

On the same day as the Starbucks arrests, a 14-year-old black boy who got lost in a Detroit suburban neighborhood on his way to school was shot at by a white homeowner after knocking on the man’s door to ask for directions. Recorded police shootings of unarmed black men in places like Ferguson, Baltimore and Charleston have had a similar dynamic.

Katie Adams said she has spent hours at her local Starbucks, sometimes drinking only free water — without incident.

“I’ve never been refused service for not making a purchase,” said Adams, a 32-year-old mom and student, who is white and lives in Hanford, California, outside of Fresno. “If my skin color was different, I feel like I would be approached.”

Adams said she was upset after watching the Starbucks video, and said the incident was “unfair and ridiculous.” Still, as a mini-storage employee, she said she has been aware of her own bias at times in dealing with customers but works to keep it in check.

“A lot of times I can feel myself saying, ‘I don’t want to rent to this person,'” Adams said. “As a white person, I have to tell myself, ‘This is a regular person, just like me.’ There’s no reason for me to assume anything until I’ve spoken with them and gotten to know them a little better. But as much as you don’t want to pre-judge someone it’s there. You’re going to do it, whether you act on it or not.”

___

Whack is The Associated Press’ national writer for race and ethnicity. Follow her work on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/emarvelousTwo migrant women from Nigeria are said to have been forced to perform a “voodoo ritual” by migrant pimps in the Swedish city of Malmö and were told they must pay off their debts through prostitution or risk dying.

The two women, according to Malmö prosecutor Helena Ljunggren, were lured to Sweden by a man and a woman who also come from Nigeria with the promise of jobs. Once the pair arrived in the country, the prosecutor claims they were forced to engage in a bizarre “voodoo ritual” that included eating a raw chicken heart, broadcaster SVT reports.

“It’s about inducing the victim to pay off their debt and it’s a way to keep the victim in control. It is part of their vulnerable position. They are easy to exploit,” Ljunggren said.

Lisa Green, regional Coordinator for Trafficking in the Malmö Centre for Sexual Services, also commented on the case saying: “For those who believe in voodoo, it becomes a truth. It can be an extremely productive way of making people obey and it is usually a person in a position of power using voodoo who cannot be questioned.”

Police Bust ‘Voodoo’ Migrant Sex Slave Ring Which Forced Women ‘To Eat Raw Chicken Hearts’ https://t.co/Ch6Z5NvqTs — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) February 25, 2018

Both the man and the woman involved in the trafficking are being charged in court with human trafficking and forced prostitution.

Court documents described what one woman had undergone during the “voodoo ritual” saying: “At the ritual, she was forced to eat a raw chicken heart and was cut over the chest with razor blades, after which the priest rubbed animal blood in the wounds.”

Migrant women, particularly from Africa, being forced into prostitution has also become common following the 2015 migrant crisis in countries like Italy where Nigerian gangs have taken over the entire southern coastal resort town of Castel Volturno.

“Voodoo rituals” have also been used by Nigerian gangs in Spain and the UK to control prostitutes. In February, police in both countries made 12 arrests in connection with a prostitution ring which also forced women to eat raw chicken hearts as well as have their fingernails pulled out as part of the ritual.Two migrant women from Nigeria are said to have been forced to perform a “voodoo ritual” by migrant pimps in the Swedish city of Malmö and were told they must pay off their debts through prostitution or risk dying.

The two women, according to Malmö prosecutor Helena Ljunggren, were lured to Sweden by a man and a woman who also come from Nigeria with the promise of jobs. Once the pair arrived in the country, the prosecutor claims they were forced to engage in a bizarre “voodoo ritual” that included eating a raw chicken heart, broadcaster SVT reports.

“It’s about inducing the victim to pay off their debt and it’s a way to keep the victim in control. It is part of their vulnerable position. They are easy to exploit,” Ljunggren said.

Lisa Green, regional Coordinator for Trafficking in the Malmö Centre for Sexual Services, also commented on the case saying: “For those who believe in voodoo, it becomes a truth. It can be an extremely productive way of making people obey and it is usually a person in a position of power using voodoo who cannot be questioned.”

Police Bust ‘Voodoo’ Migrant Sex Slave Ring Which Forced Women ‘To Eat Raw Chicken Hearts’ https://t.co/Ch6Z5NvqTs — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) February 25, 2018

Both the man and the woman involved in the trafficking are being charged in court with human trafficking and forced prostitution.

Court documents described what one woman had undergone during the “voodoo ritual” saying: “At the ritual, she was forced to eat a raw chicken heart and was cut over the chest with razor blades, after which the priest rubbed animal blood in the wounds.”

Migrant women, particularly from Africa, being forced into prostitution has also become common following the 2015 migrant crisis in countries like Italy where Nigerian gangs have taken over the entire southern coastal resort town of Castel Volturno.

“Voodoo rituals” have also been used by Nigerian gangs in Spain and the UK to control prostitutes. In February, police in both countries made 12 arrests in connection with a prostitution ring which also forced women to eat raw chicken hearts as well as have their fingernails pulled out as part of the ritual.The deportation of notorious radical Islamic Salafist hate preacher Imam El Hadi Doudi from France to his native Algeria was halted at the last minute this week by an intervention from the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).

The 63-year-old hate preacher was notified that he was to be sent back to his native Algeria on Tuesday and taken into custody at a detention centre. But while there, the ECHR contacted the French Interior Ministry claiming they need a few days to review his case before his deportation, La Croix reports.

Imam El Hadi Doudi is well-known in Marseille for his extremist views and radical sermons and many had called for his expulsion from France in the past.

According to Doudi’s lawyer Nabil Boudi, the ECHR suspended his client’s deportation under article 39 which allows the ECHR to interfere in cases where harm may come to an individual. Mr. Boudi said that he had sent requests claiming that his client may be subjected to torture if sent back to Algeria.

Doudi, who serves as the imam for the As-Sunna mosque in central Marseille, has been accused of stoking up hatred against a number of groups including Jews, Shiites, women, and adulterers.

Asylum seeker's human rights trump national security https://t.co/jdupFKKI0S — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 11, 2018

The Prefecture of Police of Bouches-du-Rhone decided in December to temporarily close the As-Sunna mosque for six months which was agreed on by the Council of State at the end of January.

The case is not the first time a European court has prevented the deportation of a radical Islamic extremist. In January, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) prevented the Swedish government from expelling a Moroccan asylum seeker who their security agency had deemed a terrorist threat.

In Germany, the government has also had a difficult time deporting radical Islamic extremists with a new report showing the German regional governments combined had only deported 10 extremists since the start of 2017.The deportation of notorious radical Islamic Salafist hate preacher Imam El Hadi Doudi from France to his native Algeria was halted at the last minute this week by an intervention from the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR).

The 63-year-old hate preacher was notified that he was to be sent back to his native Algeria on Tuesday and taken into custody at a detention centre. But while there, the ECHR contacted the French Interior Ministry claiming they need a few days to review his case before his deportation, La Croix reports.

Imam El Hadi Doudi is well-known in Marseille for his extremist views and radical sermons and many had called for his expulsion from France in the past.

According to Doudi’s lawyer Nabil Boudi, the ECHR suspended his client’s deportation under article 39 which allows the ECHR to interfere in cases where harm may come to an individual. Mr. Boudi said that he had sent requests claiming that his client may be subjected to torture if sent back to Algeria.

Doudi, who serves as the imam for the As-Sunna mosque in central Marseille, has been accused of stoking up hatred against a number of groups including Jews, Shiites, women, and adulterers.

Asylum seeker's human rights trump national security https://t.co/jdupFKKI0S — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 11, 2018

The Prefecture of Police of Bouches-du-Rhone decided in December to temporarily close the As-Sunna mosque for six months which was agreed on by the Council of State at the end of January.

The case is not the first time a European court has prevented the deportation of a radical Islamic extremist. In January, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) prevented the Swedish government from expelling a Moroccan asylum seeker who their security agency had deemed a terrorist threat.

In Germany, the government has also had a difficult time deporting radical Islamic extremists with a new report showing the German regional governments combined had only deported 10 extremists since the start of 2017.This year’s Young People’s Laureate for London Momtaza Mehri has attacked Britain in her writings for its alleged “unbridled Islamophobia” and “established racism”.

The Somali-heritage 24-year-old is described by Media Diversified as being interested in “capitalism and colonialism” and “decontextualizing knowledge production” to explore “how it informs race, gender and nation theory”.

In her essay, “Black, British & Muslim; We’re not just a ‘Complication'” in 2015, Ms. Mehri writes that, “We [British Black Muslims] navigate a precipice few would want to tiptoe in 21st century Britain: the two-pronged realities of unbridled Islamophobia and established racism.”

Condemning the 16th-century monarch Queen Elizabeth I for writing of the “need to control the number of ‘blackmoores'” in the country, she goes on to describe the alleged reality of English major cities in the 1500s as substantially “multi-ethnic and certainly multi-faith”, with notable African populations.

The poet also attacked the Office for National Statistics for failing to have a distinct classification for Black Muslims in what she interprets as “Black Muslim erasure”, lamenting that the Muslim label is dominated by “Asians”.

In another 2015 article for Media Diversified, “Why I’m Staying in on the 7th of July”, Ms. Mehri reflects on being a Muslim on the anniversary of the UK’s first Islamic fundamentalist-inspired suicide terror attack on July 7th, 2005.

Writing that “Muslims today know of our own demonisation”, she fantasised “that being whisked off into the night” – presumably by counter-terror police – “is a very real possibility” for the average British Muslim.

Adding her support for the fake-hate crime reporting body Tell MAMA, she also called British foreign policy think tank The Henry Jackson Society “hateful, imperialistic” and a “career-Islamophobe” vehicle.

Leftists Vandalise Cafe’s Churchill Mural with ‘Imperialist Scum’, ‘Warmonger’ Graffiti https://t.co/EX6RlLl05l — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 24, 2018

Following her appointment as youth poet by London’s writer development agency Spread the Word, Ms. Mehri will be spending this year setting up ‘youth-focused’ residencies where she hopes to “lead conversations” with young Londoners.

Spread the Word’s trustees’ chairman Rishi Dastidar called Ms. Mehri an “inspired voice” and said that “Becoming Young People’s Laureate is a sign that this is a poet to watch.”

Described by BBC Radio 4 as a “successful millennial poet”, Ms. Mehri has written such poems as “Netflix & Chill”, “Wink Wink” (in reference to the texting emoji), and “I Don’t Like Sh*t, I Don’t Go Outside” with opening lines that compare an orgasm to the War on Terror.

‘White Writers Perpetuate Institutional Racism’ https://t.co/UiAq0E0pi9 — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 27, 2017

Portraying her participation in expensive poetry workshops and her guilt of the deprivation faced by her relatives in Somalia in “I Don’t Like Sh*t, I Don’t Go Outside”, she writes:

I complain about white men tugging at my self-worth while the well of my grandmother’s village dries up. I can’t stand the smell of my words.

Then comparing her brother’s appearance to that of African migrants drowning in the Mediterranean attempting to reach Europe, she writes that “Everything sinks to the bottom. / Even the monthly shreds of my uterus.”

Joelle Taylor, Young People’s Laureate for London judge, explained the importance of such laureates as Ms. Mehri for London’s youth, saying: “A dynamic and diverse city demands a poet that can speak for it and help others to find their mouths too – and that is at the heart of why the role was created.”

Twitter Follow @friedmanpress Follow Victoria Friedman onThis year’s Young People’s Laureate for London Momtaza Mehri has attacked Britain in her writings for its alleged “unbridled Islamophobia” and “established racism”.

The Somali-heritage 24-year-old is described by Media Diversified as being interested in “capitalism and colonialism” and “decontextualizing knowledge production” to explore “how it informs race, gender and nation theory”.

In her essay, “Black, British & Muslim; We’re not just a ‘Complication'” in 2015, Ms. Mehri writes that, “We [British Black Muslims] navigate a precipice few would want to tiptoe in 21st century Britain: the two-pronged realities of unbridled Islamophobia and established racism.”

Condemning the 16th-century monarch Queen Elizabeth I for writing of the “need to control the number of ‘blackmoores'” in the country, she goes on to describe the alleged reality of English major cities in the 1500s as substantially “multi-ethnic and certainly multi-faith”, with notable African populations.

The poet also attacked the Office for National Statistics for failing to have a distinct classification for Black Muslims in what she interprets as “Black Muslim erasure”, lamenting that the Muslim label is dominated by “Asians”.

In another 2015 article for Media Diversified, “Why I’m Staying in on the 7th of July”, Ms. Mehri reflects on being a Muslim on the anniversary of the UK’s first Islamic fundamentalist-inspired suicide terror attack on July 7th, 2005.

Writing that “Muslims today know of our own demonisation”, she fantasised “that being whisked off into the night” – presumably by counter-terror police – “is a very real possibility” for the average British Muslim.

Adding her support for the fake-hate crime reporting body Tell MAMA, she also called British foreign policy think tank The Henry Jackson Society “hateful, imperialistic” and a “career-Islamophobe” vehicle.

Leftists Vandalise Cafe’s Churchill Mural with ‘Imperialist Scum’, ‘Warmonger’ Graffiti https://t.co/EX6RlLl05l — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) January 24, 2018

Following her appointment as youth poet by London’s writer development agency Spread the Word, Ms. Mehri will be spending this year setting up ‘youth-focused’ residencies where she hopes to “lead conversations” with young Londoners.

Spread the Word’s trustees’ chairman Rishi Dastidar called Ms. Mehri an “inspired voice” and said that “Becoming Young People’s Laureate is a sign that this is a poet to watch.”

Described by BBC Radio 4 as a “successful millennial poet”, Ms. Mehri has written such poems as “Netflix & Chill”, “Wink Wink” (in reference to the texting emoji), and “I Don’t Like Sh*t, I Don’t Go Outside” with opening lines that compare an orgasm to the War on Terror.

‘White Writers Perpetuate Institutional Racism’ https://t.co/UiAq0E0pi9 — Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) October 27, 2017

Portraying her participation in expensive poetry workshops and her guilt of the deprivation faced by her relatives in Somalia in “I Don’t Like Sh*t, I Don’t Go Outside”, she writes:

I complain about white men tugging at my self-worth while the well of my grandmother’s village dries up. I can’t stand the smell of my words.

Then comparing her brother’s appearance to that of African migrants drowning in the Mediterranean attempting to reach Europe, she writes that “Everything sinks to the bottom. / Even the monthly shreds of my uterus.”

Joelle Taylor, Young People’s Laureate for London judge, explained the importance of such laureates as Ms. Mehri for London’s youth, saying: “A dynamic and diverse city demands a poet that can speak for it and help others to find their mouths too – and that is at the heart of why the role was created.”

Twitter Follow @friedmanpress Follow Victoria Friedman onMichael Malice, author of Dear Reader: The Unauthorized Autobiography of Kim Jong-il, discussed President Donald Trump’s North Korea strategy with SiriusXM hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak during Wednesday’s Breitbart News Tonight. Malice described the president’s dual “madman” and “good cop, bad cop” approach as offering “reasons to hope” for human rights improvements in the totalitarian state.

Malice said, “I don’t really think Donald Trump’s the kind of guy who’s trusting. He seems paranoid — understandably and correctly — with members of his own staff. Remember, at the end of 2017, North Korea sentenced him to death for his tweets. The idea that Trump is going to look at Kim Jong-un as some kind of Mitch McConnell, that’s absurd. He’s clearly going to go into this knowing what these people are like. You remember at the State of the Union he brought out that refugee with crutches, so he knows how evil this regime is. I think the idea that he’s going to come in there with blinders on and think these are good guys who are going to do the right thing is false.”

LISTEN:



Malice contrasted Trump’s approach with previous presidents, describing the president’s strategy as “good cop, bad cop” with the Chinese government. He said, “My gut is telling me that President Trump and China are doing a good cop, bad cop situation, where President Trump gets to be the madman — ‘Oh, my God, he’s an evil, crazy person!’ — and China gets to act as the reasonable one, and that will force Kim Jong-un to do what China wants and kind of bring themselves into the 21st century and curb many of their human rights abuses. That’s what my instincts are telling me.”

Mansour cast Trump as cultivating a persona of unpredictability. “It seems as if Kim has been used to being the one where he’s the madman. … Finally, he found an American president who says, ‘I’m crazier than you are, buddy.'”

Malice concurred with Mansour. He replied, “That’s been the North Korean strategy for decades, and there’s a very famous story where the great leader Kim Il-sung is with all these generals and with Kim Jong-il, and he says, ‘What happens if the U.S. imperialists attack?’ and the generals are like, ‘We’ll kill them all!’ and Kim Il-sung goes, ‘What if we don’t win?’ and they’re all standing around looking at each other, and Kim Jong-il says, ‘If we lose, we will destroy the world,’ and Kim Il-sung says, ‘Spoken like a real supreme commander.’”

Malice continued, “So from their mythology, the whole thing is, if we’re going down, we’re taking as many people as we can with us. So for Trump to say, ‘You know what? I’ve got a button on my desk, and it’s bigger than yours, and it works,’ that’s exactly their mentality and their language, and they’re like, ‘This guy gets us, or at the very least speaks in the same kind of terms that we do,’ which is a very essential beginning step for any sort of negotiation — when you have a common language and a common sense of action.”

Malice compared current circumstances between the U.S. and North Korea with those of decades past. He stated, “I agree with [Mark Levin] and others that history has been littered with failed agreements. That is absolutely true. However, if we’re starting with ending the Korean War, that’s something to build on, and what has changed from history is that Kim Jong-un, none of the leaders have ever left North Korea. They would go to China, maybe, or Russia. If Kim Jong-un is willing to leave the country, that is a show of some sort of submission. … It’s like in Hollywood, who gets up to sit at whose table? If you’re the important person, you sit, and people come to you. So for Kim Jong-un to be getting on a plane and meeting Donald Trump in some neutral territory, that says a lot, and also, he met directly with Pompeo. This is also largely unprecedented. The last time there was a meeting of this sort at the highest level with the leader himself, I think, was Madeleine Albright in 2000 with Kim Jong-il, which was very public. This was in secret. So this secret meeting with the Americans, at the very least, shows that they’re willing to play ball on some level. Does that mean these are good people and we can shake hands and everything’s going to be great? Of course not. But what I’m saying is there are reasons to hope, and I very much doubt that Trump is going to be the one who’s going to have the wool pulled over his eyes.”

Malice described Kim Jong-un as more “worldly,” “cosmopolitan,” and “enamored with the outside world” than his paternal antecedents, Kim Jong-il and Kim Il-sung. He described this feature as a possible asset for Trump in future negotiations to curb human rights abuses in the totalitarian state.

Pollak asked Malice about Democrat criticisms of CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s meeting with Kim as violating diplomatic protocol.

Malice replied, “I can answer you very easily. They’re bonkers. In the early nineties, Jimmy Carter went there to meet with the great leader Kim Il-sung. He had no official government capacity. When North Korea kidnapped an American reporter, Lisa Ling, and held her captive, Bill Clinton went there, under no official capacity, and got her released. So if you’re dealing with concentration camps, and people who are starved, including children, for political purposes, and your point is, ‘Well, we have to follow proper protocol’ when dealing with murderers who have blood on their hands, who kill their own family members, are you joking? ‘You’re not going through channels?’ This is insane. This isn’t like sitting down with Brexit or Theresa May. These are killers, and they’ve been killers for decades, and they revel in their brutality. So the idea that, ‘Oh, we’ve got to make sure we send the right guy,’ the right guy is the one who gets the job done. It’s not necessarily the one who has the correct titles.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.Michael Malice, author of Dear Reader: The Unauthorized Autobiography of Kim Jong-il, discussed President Donald Trump’s North Korea strategy with SiriusXM hosts Rebecca Mansour and Joel Pollak during Wednesday’s Breitbart News Tonight. Malice described the president’s dual “madman” and “good cop, bad cop” approach as offering “reasons to hope” for human rights improvements in the totalitarian state.

Malice said, “I don’t really think Donald Trump’s the kind of guy who’s trusting. He seems paranoid — understandably and correctly — with members of his own staff. Remember, at the end of 2017, North Korea sentenced him to death for his tweets. The idea that Trump is going to look at Kim Jong-un as some kind of Mitch McConnell, that’s absurd. He’s clearly going to go into this knowing what these people are like. You remember at the State of the Union he brought out that refugee with crutches, so he knows how evil this regime is. I think the idea that he’s going to come in there with blinders on and think these are good guys who are going to do the right thing is false.”

LISTEN:



Malice contrasted Trump’s approach with previous presidents, describing the president’s strategy as “good cop, bad cop” with the Chinese government. He said, “My gut is telling me that President Trump and China are doing a good cop, bad cop situation, where President Trump gets to be the madman — ‘Oh, my God, he’s an evil, crazy person!’ — and China gets to act as the reasonable one, and that will force Kim Jong-un to do what China wants and kind of bring themselves into the 21st century and curb many of their human rights abuses. That’s what my instincts are telling me.”

Mansour cast Trump as cultivating a persona of unpredictability. “It seems as if Kim has been used to being the one where he’s the madman. … Finally, he found an American president who says, ‘I’m crazier than you are, buddy.'”

Malice concurred with Mansour. He replied, “That’s been the North Korean strategy for decades, and there’s a very famous story where the great leader Kim Il-sung is with all these generals and with Kim Jong-il, and he says, ‘What happens if the U.S. imperialists attack?’ and the generals are like, ‘We’ll kill them all!’ and Kim Il-sung goes, ‘What if we don’t win?’ and they’re all standing around looking at each other, and Kim Jong-il says, ‘If we lose, we will destroy the world,’ and Kim Il-sung says, ‘Spoken like a real supreme commander.’”

Malice continued, “So from their mythology, the whole thing is, if we’re going down, we’re taking as many people as we can with us. So for Trump to say, ‘You know what? I’ve got a button on my desk, and it’s bigger than yours, and it works,’ that’s exactly their mentality and their language, and they’re like, ‘This guy gets us, or at the very least speaks in the same kind of terms that we do,’ which is a very essential beginning step for any sort of negotiation — when you have a common language and a common sense of action.”

Malice compared current circumstances between the U.S. and North Korea with those of decades past. He stated, “I agree with [Mark Levin] and others that history has been littered with failed agreements. That is absolutely true. However, if we’re starting with ending the Korean War, that’s something to build on, and what has changed from history is that Kim Jong-un, none of the leaders have ever left North Korea. They would go to China, maybe, or Russia. If Kim Jong-un is willing to leave the country, that is a show of some sort of submission. … It’s like in Hollywood, who gets up to sit at whose table? If you’re the important person, you sit, and people come to you. So for Kim Jong-un to be getting on a plane and meeting Donald Trump in some neutral territory, that says a lot, and also, he met directly with Pompeo. This is also largely unprecedented. The last time there was a meeting of this sort at the highest level with the leader himself, I think, was Madeleine Albright in 2000 with Kim Jong-il, which was very public. This was in secret. So this secret meeting with the Americans, at the very least, shows that they’re willing to play ball on some level. Does that mean these are good people and we can shake hands and everything’s going to be great? Of course not. But what I’m saying is there are reasons to hope, and I very much doubt that Trump is going to be the one who’s going to have the wool pulled over his eyes.”

Malice described Kim Jong-un as more “worldly,” “cosmopolitan,” and “enamored with the outside world” than his paternal antecedents, Kim Jong-il and Kim Il-sung. He described this feature as a possible asset for Trump in future negotiations to curb human rights abuses in the totalitarian state.

Pollak asked Malice about Democrat criticisms of CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s meeting with Kim as violating diplomatic protocol.

Malice replied, “I can answer you very easily. They’re bonkers. In the early nineties, Jimmy Carter went there to meet with the great leader Kim Il-sung. He had no official government capacity. When North Korea kidnapped an American reporter, Lisa Ling, and held her captive, Bill Clinton went there, under no official capacity, and got her released. So if you’re dealing with concentration camps, and people who are starved, including children, for political purposes, and your point is, ‘Well, we have to follow proper protocol’ when dealing with murderers who have blood on their hands, who kill their own family members, are you joking? ‘You’re not going through channels?’ This is insane. This isn’t like sitting down with Brexit or Theresa May. These are killers, and they’ve been killers for decades, and they revel in their brutality. So the idea that, ‘Oh, we’ve got to make sure we send the right guy,’ the right guy is the one who gets the job done. It’s not necessarily the one who has the correct titles.”

Breitbart News Tonight broadcasts live Monday through Friday on SiriusXM’s Patriot channel 125 from 9:00 p.m. to midnight Eastern (6:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Pacific).

Follow Robert Kraychik on Twitter @rkraychik.South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Thursday that North Korea has dropped its long-standing demand for American forces to withdraw completely from the Korean peninsula as a condition for denuclearization.

“The North Koreans did not present any conditions that the United States could not accept, such as the withdrawal of American troops in South Korea,” Moon told newspaper publishers at a conference ahead of his own summit meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un next Friday.

“They only talk about an end to hostilities against their country and about getting security guarantees. It’s safe to say that the plans for dialogue between the North and the United States could proceed because that has been made clear,” said Moon.

Moon said that Kim told South Korean envoys last month that he is willing to give up nuclear weapons if North Korea receives certain “security guarantees” and does not feel “militarily threatened.”

Moon took it as an encouraging sign that North Korea did not react negatively to joint U.S.-South Korean military exercises this year, as was widely expected.

“Even when the dialogue between the South and the North began due to North Korea’s participation in the PyeongChang Winter Olympics, the so-called April crisis theory that said South-North relations would again go bankrupt once the Olympics were over and the joint South Korea-U.S. military exercises resumed in April continued to keep the people worried,” he recalled.

“Perhaps the situation could have gone in such a direction. But our determination and efforts to create a situation that we want instead of leaving our fate to changes in the situation turned the tide,” he said.

Moon credited U.S. President Donald Trump with bringing North Korea to the negotiating table but cautioned that it is far too early to celebrate diplomatic success.

“As I have mentioned many times, President Trump’s absolute support for dialogue on denuclearization has been a critical force in creating the dramatic change in conditions. But to speak objectively, we are only stepping over the threshold of dialogue now. It is too early to boast of the success of dialogue,” Moon said.

“We are in a situation where we cannot improve the South-North Korean relations only based on successful dialogue between the South and the North. The North Korea-U.S. ties also need to be improved and the North-Japan relations as well. The South-North relations can develop when and if all these issues move forward,” he added, stressing the importance of the as-yet unscheduled Trump-Kim summit over his own meeting with the North Korean leader.

“We cannot repeat past mistakes and so must find new solutions. But the talks will be successful only when all sides reach an agreement on such new solutions. In addition, they will ultimately require an agreement between the North and the U.S.,” he said.

CNN notes that a South Korean official said in March that Kim “understands the South’s stance” about the necessity of proceeding with military exercises, at least those scheduled after the Winter Olympics this year, but he expects joint U.S.-South Korean drills will be “readjusted” if the Korean Peninsula becomes more stable.South Korean President Moon Jae-in said on Thursday that North Korea has dropped its long-standing demand for American forces to withdraw completely from the Korean peninsula as a condition for denuclearization.

“The North Koreans did not present any conditions that the United States could not accept, such as the withdrawal of American troops in South Korea,” Moon told newspaper publishers at a conference ahead of his own summit meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un next Friday.

“They only talk about an end to hostilities against their country and about getting security guarantees. It’s safe to say that the plans for dialogue between the North and the United States could proceed because that has been made clear,” said Moon.

Moon said that Kim told South Korean envoys last month that he is willing to give up nuclear weapons if North Korea receives certain “security guarantees” and does not feel “militarily threatened.”

Moon took it as an encouraging sign that North Korea did not react negatively to joint U.S.-South Korean military exercises this year, as was widely expected.

“Even when the dialogue between the South and the North began due to North Korea’s participation in the PyeongChang Winter Olympics, the so-called April crisis theory that said South-North relations would again go bankrupt once the Olympics were over and the joint South Korea-U.S. military exercises resumed in April continued to keep the people worried,” he recalled.

“Perhaps the situation could have gone in such a direction. But our determination and efforts to create a situation that we want instead of leaving our fate to changes in the situation turned the tide,” he said.

Moon credited U.S. President Donald Trump with bringing North Korea to the negotiating table but cautioned that it is far too early to celebrate diplomatic success.

“As I have mentioned many times, President Trump’s absolute support for dialogue on denuclearization has been a critical force in creating the dramatic change in conditions. But to speak objectively, we are only stepping over the threshold of dialogue now. It is too early to boast of the success of dialogue,” Moon said.

“We are in a situation where we cannot improve the South-North Korean relations only based on successful dialogue between the South and the North. The North Korea-U.S. ties also need to be improved and the North-Japan relations as well. The South-North relations can develop when and if all these issues move forward,” he added, stressing the importance of the as-yet unscheduled Trump-Kim summit over his own meeting with the North Korean leader.

“We cannot repeat past mistakes and so must find new solutions. But the talks will be successful only when all sides reach an agreement on such new solutions. In addition, they will ultimately require an agreement between the North and the U.S.,” he said.

CNN notes that a South Korean official said in March that Kim “understands the South’s stance” about the necessity of proceeding with military exercises, at least those scheduled after the Winter Olympics this year, but he expects joint U.S.-South Korean drills will be “readjusted” if the Korean Peninsula becomes more stable.At a joint news conference with visiting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Wednesday, President Donald Trump said the United States is “fighting very diligently” to secure the freedom of three Americans held by North Korea.

A senior administration official confirmed that CIA Director and Secretary of State nominee Mike Pompeo discussed the issue with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un during their secret meeting over Easter weekend.

“I think there’s a good chance of doing it. We’re having very good dialogue,” Trump said.

The president said during the same press conference that he is prepared to “respectfully leave the meeting” with Kim if his summit with the North Korean leader is not “fruitful.” He did not specify whether the fate of the imprisoned Americans could be a deal-breaker.

Trump also promised to work for the freedom of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea, saying their fate is “one of the truly most important things on Shinzo’s mind.”

The North Koreans have admitted to kidnapping 13 Japanese citizens, of whom five have been returned to Japan, while eight others died in captivity. Japan says four more of its citizens remain unaccounted for.

The three Americans still held by North Korea after the release and subsequent death of college student Otto Warmbier in June 2017 include Tony Kim and Kim Hak-song, both teachers at the unusual Christian-founded private school known as the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, and Kim Dong-chul, who has been described as a Christian missionary.

Kim Dong-chul has been in captivity the longest since his arrest in October 2015. The North Koreans forced him to make a confession in which he claimed to be a paid espionage agent working for the South Korean government. Kim Hak-song and Tony Kim were vaguely charged with working to undermine the North Korean state.

Former Amnesty International executive Frank Jannuzi, who has experience working with North Korean diplomats, told the UK Express in March that he would “not be surprised” if North Korea released the three American prisoners as a goodwill gesture ahead of the Trump-Kim summit.

“The North Koreans have studied Donald Trump very carefully since he was elected in 2016. We have to remember that these three are of no strategic relevance at all. They know that to release them would allow him to claim a victory. It would put him in a good mood, basically,” Jannuzi contended.

Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for East Asia Abraham Denmark, now director of the Asia program at the Wilson International Center for Scholars, told Germany’s Deutsche Welle on Wednesday that he was mildly surprised Pompeo did not return from his Easter meeting with the three captive Americans in tow.

“I believe that it is impossible to negotiate with North Korea while there are American prisoners in the country. I believe releasing them in relatively good condition should be a precondition for talks. It is unclear how the administration is approaching this,” Denmark said.At a joint news conference with visiting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe on Wednesday, President Donald Trump said the United States is “fighting very diligently” to secure the freedom of three Americans held by North Korea.

A senior administration official confirmed that CIA Director and Secretary of State nominee Mike Pompeo discussed the issue with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un during their secret meeting over Easter weekend.

“I think there’s a good chance of doing it. We’re having very good dialogue,” Trump said.

The president said during the same press conference that he is prepared to “respectfully leave the meeting” with Kim if his summit with the North Korean leader is not “fruitful.” He did not specify whether the fate of the imprisoned Americans could be a deal-breaker.

Trump also promised to work for the freedom of Japanese citizens abducted by North Korea, saying their fate is “one of the truly most important things on Shinzo’s mind.”

The North Koreans have admitted to kidnapping 13 Japanese citizens, of whom five have been returned to Japan, while eight others died in captivity. Japan says four more of its citizens remain unaccounted for.

The three Americans still held by North Korea after the release and subsequent death of college student Otto Warmbier in June 2017 include Tony Kim and Kim Hak-song, both teachers at the unusual Christian-founded private school known as the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, and Kim Dong-chul, who has been described as a Christian missionary.

Kim Dong-chul has been in captivity the longest since his arrest in October 2015. The North Koreans forced him to make a confession in which he claimed to be a paid espionage agent working for the South Korean government. Kim Hak-song and Tony Kim were vaguely charged with working to undermine the North Korean state.

Former Amnesty International executive Frank Jannuzi, who has experience working with North Korean diplomats, told the UK Express in March that he would “not be surprised” if North Korea released the three American prisoners as a goodwill gesture ahead of the Trump-Kim summit.

“The North Koreans have studied Donald Trump very carefully since he was elected in 2016. We have to remember that these three are of no strategic relevance at all. They know that to release them would allow him to claim a victory. It would put him in a good mood, basically,” Jannuzi contended.

Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for East Asia Abraham Denmark, now director of the Asia program at the Wilson International Center for Scholars, told Germany’s Deutsche Welle on Wednesday that he was mildly surprised Pompeo did not return from his Easter meeting with the three captive Americans in tow.

“I believe that it is impossible to negotiate with North Korea while there are American prisoners in the country. I believe releasing them in relatively good condition should be a precondition for talks. It is unclear how the administration is approaching this,” Denmark said.WASHINGTON, DC — Several human rights activists and other analysts have accused the regime of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of employing “rape” to punish and threaten political detractors, including journalists who have dared criticize the government.

During a discussion on Wednesday focused on the conditions in Turkey under the Erdogan, Deborah Weiss, a senior fellow at the Center for Security Policy (CSP) think tank that hosted the event, proclaimed:

Turkey is no longer a nation of laws but a nation of men, It is corrupt. It’s Islamized. It’s authoritarian, and sometimes even brutal and violent. … Instead of responding in a reasonable way [to the Gezi park protests in 2013], the government clamped down with more violence. They shot tear gas into the crowds. They shot bullets into the crowds. People were beaten. Some people were raped and this was obviously an indicator that this government under Erdogan no longer was going to tolerate political dissent or any free expression and obviously also freedom of association was in jeopardy.

Consistent with Weiss’ remarks, human rights group Amnesty International quoted Alper Merdoglu, identified as a member of the board of the Istanbul Branch of the Chamber of Engineering Physicists and a member organization of Chamber of Architects and Engineers who participated in the protests, as saying, “[Police] were beating me and all the while shouting insults at me, including threats to rape members of my family.”

Deniz Ersahin, another protester, told Amnesty International that police officers sexually assaulted her, noting: “They shouted sexual insults like ‘bitch’ and threatened me with rape. … A police officer felt my bottom.”

Weiss pointed out that Erdogan erroneously labeled the protesters as terrorists or terrorist sympathizers for speaking out against the government, a label that he has allegedly continued to use to crack down on the opposition.

The CSP expert described the Erdogan regime’s response to the Gezi demonstrations — sparked by residents protesting the building of a shopping center at the park — as “ a turning point for Turkey’s history entirely.”

Echoing news reports, Weiss noted that that oppression has intensified under the Erdogan “dictatorship.”

She explained:

Turkey’s move away from a secular democracy, its creeping Sharia and its slide towards authoritarian rule have created an entire climate of fear. … Freedom of expression [and] association and political dissent has declined. NGOs have been folded. The free media is history … there’s no academic freedom, no independent judiciary, and no freedom of thought on political manners in any forum whatsoever.

Weiss stressed that regime has particularly targeted journalists.

“Turkey has more journalists in jail than any other country in the world. More than China. More than Iran,” she revealed. “One -third of the journalists who are imprisoned worldwide are sitting in Turkish jails.”

In February, a group of journalists accused the Erdogan regime of beating them and threatening them with rape during a raid on their office.

“As I was taken downstairs in handcuffs, a plain-clothes officer hit me in the back with a metal bar. When I protested, he threatened to rape me,” Turkey’s Cumhuriyet newspaper quoted Gulfem Karatas, a reporter for the Turkish left-leaning television channel IMC TV, as saying.

In the wake of the failed coup attempt of July 2016, human rights group Amnesty International revealed that many of the thousands of prisoners detained on charges of being linked to the rebellion “have been subjected to severe beatings and torture, including rape.”

Several news outlets emphasized that the Erdogan regime was targeting women in response to the coup attempt.

“The coup, the war, AKP’s [ruling Justice and Development] backwardness or jihadist mobs … they all target women,” said University Women’s Collective, a popular feminist group, in a statement. “They use sexual harassment against women’s [quest to] exist freely. They are enforcing their manhood by threatening to rape the wives or daughters of the declared enemy. Women must defend themselves.”

On Wednesday, Uzay Bulut, a U.S.-based Turkish journalist who covers antisemitism and minority rights in Turkey, stressed that the Erdogan regime is also persecuting the indigenous Christian, Yazidi, and Jewish communities in the country.

“Only Turkish nationalism and Islam have been able to grow and take root all other philosophies religions cultures, faiths, and ideas have brutally and sometimes violently oppressed,” Bulut, who participated in the discussions, declared.

Bulut noted that “severe persecution” that continues under Erdogan has rendered Turkey — formerly a Christian majority region with sizable Jewish and Yazidi (or Yezidi) communities — a Muslim-majority country.

Currently, the Yazidi religion and Protestant Christianity are treated as security threats in Turkey, noted the analyst.

Dr. Y. Alp Aslandogan, the executive director of the non-profit Alliance for Shared Values, recently told Breitbart News that Erdogan’s authoritarian government has deemed Christians and Jews “enemies of the state.”

The latest U.S. State Department International Religious Freedom Report acknowledges that discrimination against Christians and other religious minorities intensified in Turkey following the failed coup attempt of July 2016.WASHINGTON, DC — Several human rights activists and other analysts have accused the regime of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of employing “rape” to punish and threaten political detractors, including journalists who have dared criticize the government.

During a discussion on Wednesday focused on the conditions in Turkey under the Erdogan, Deborah Weiss, a senior fellow at the Center for Security Policy (CSP) think tank that hosted the event, proclaimed:

Turkey is no longer a nation of laws but a nation of men, It is corrupt. It’s Islamized. It’s authoritarian, and sometimes even brutal and violent. … Instead of responding in a reasonable way [to the Gezi park protests in 2013], the government clamped down with more violence. They shot tear gas into the crowds. They shot bullets into the crowds. People were beaten. Some people were raped and this was obviously an indicator that this government under Erdogan no longer was going to tolerate political dissent or any free expression and obviously also freedom of association was in jeopardy.

Consistent with Weiss’ remarks, human rights group Amnesty International quoted Alper Merdoglu, identified as a member of the board of the Istanbul Branch of the Chamber of Engineering Physicists and a member organization of Chamber of Architects and Engineers who participated in the protests, as saying, “[Police] were beating me and all the while shouting insults at me, including threats to rape members of my family.”

Deniz Ersahin, another protester, told Amnesty International that police officers sexually assaulted her, noting: “They shouted sexual insults like ‘bitch’ and threatened me with rape. … A police officer felt my bottom.”

Weiss pointed out that Erdogan erroneously labeled the protesters as terrorists or terrorist sympathizers for speaking out against the government, a label that he has allegedly continued to use to crack down on the opposition.

The CSP expert described the Erdogan regime’s response to the Gezi demonstrations — sparked by residents protesting the building of a shopping center at the park — as “ a turning point for Turkey’s history entirely.”

Echoing news reports, Weiss noted that that oppression has intensified under the Erdogan “dictatorship.”

She explained:

Turkey’s move away from a secular democracy, its creeping Sharia and its slide towards authoritarian rule have created an entire climate of fear. … Freedom of expression [and] association and political dissent has declined. NGOs have been folded. The free media is history … there’s no academic freedom, no independent judiciary, and no freedom of thought on political manners in any forum whatsoever.

Weiss stressed that regime has particularly targeted journalists.

“Turkey has more journalists in jail than any other country in the world. More than China. More than Iran,” she revealed. “One -third of the journalists who are imprisoned worldwide are sitting in Turkish jails.”

In February, a group of journalists accused the Erdogan regime of beating them and threatening them with rape during a raid on their office.

“As I was taken downstairs in handcuffs, a plain-clothes officer hit me in the back with a metal bar. When I protested, he threatened to rape me,” Turkey’s Cumhuriyet newspaper quoted Gulfem Karatas, a reporter for the Turkish left-leaning television channel IMC TV, as saying.

In the wake of the failed coup attempt of July 2016, human rights group Amnesty International revealed that many of the thousands of prisoners detained on charges of being linked to the rebellion “have been subjected to severe beatings and torture, including rape.”

Several news outlets emphasized that the Erdogan regime was targeting women in response to the coup attempt.

“The coup, the war, AKP’s [ruling Justice and Development] backwardness or jihadist mobs … they all target women,” said University Women’s Collective, a popular feminist group, in a statement. “They use sexual harassment against women’s [quest to] exist freely. They are enforcing their manhood by threatening to rape the wives or daughters of the declared enemy. Women must defend themselves.”

On Wednesday, Uzay Bulut, a U.S.-based Turkish journalist who covers antisemitism and minority rights in Turkey, stressed that the Erdogan regime is also persecuting the indigenous Christian, Yazidi, and Jewish communities in the country.

“Only Turkish nationalism and Islam have been able to grow and take root all other philosophies religions cultures, faiths, and ideas have brutally and sometimes violently oppressed,” Bulut, who participated in the discussions, declared.

Bulut noted that “severe persecution” that continues under Erdogan has rendered Turkey — formerly a Christian majority region with sizable Jewish and Yazidi (or Yezidi) communities — a Muslim-majority country.

Currently, the Yazidi religion and Protestant Christianity are treated as security threats in Turkey, noted the analyst.

Dr. Y. Alp Aslandogan, the executive director of the non-profit Alliance for Shared Values, recently told Breitbart News that Erdogan’s authoritarian government has deemed Christians and Jews “enemies of the state.”

The latest U.S. State Department International Religious Freedom Report acknowledges that discrimination against Christians and other religious minorities intensified in Turkey following the failed coup attempt of July 2016.Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) “arrived” in Douma, Syria, on Tuesday, but they were not able to enter the town and examine the sites where the Syrian government allegedly deployed chemical weapons.

As of Thursday, the inspection team is still on hold and has no timetable for examining the sites. It has now been almost two weeks since the attack occurred.

In a statement released on Wednesday, the OPCW explained that security for the sites that its fact-finding mission intended to visit was the responsibility of Russian military police. Arrangements were made for the Syrian military to escort the OPCW team to a “certain point,” where the Russians would take over.

The United Nations decided to send its own security team in advance. The results were discouraging:

On arrival at Site 1, a large crowd gathered and the advice provided by the UNDSS was that the reconnaissance team should withdraw. At Site 2, the team came under small arms fire and an explosive was detonated. The reconnaissance team returned to Damascus.

An “official close to the Syrian government” told Reuters the hostile crowd that materialized at the first site was protesting the U.S.-led airstrikes against Syria on Friday night.

“It was a message from the people,” the official claimed.

The U.N. is reportedly working with the Syrian government, local councils in Douma, and the Russians to “review the security situation,” but the OPCW does not know when its fact-finding mission will be allowed to visit the sites.

On Wednesday, Al-Jazeera slammed Syrian state media for misleading reports that suggested the OPCW inspectors had entered Douma and commenced their examination of the chemical attack sites, rather than being compelled to abandon their mission and return to safety.

Al-Jazeera’s report also pointed out that, only a few days ago, the Syrian and Russian governments claimed Douma had been “fully liberated from terrorists.”

CBS News reports that its correspondents were able to tour Douma this week and found the town “peaceful,” with residents “out on the streets and starting to clean up.” One resident told CBS that chemical weapons were used in Douma to deadly effect but insisted they were “dropped here by the terrorists,” not the Assad regime. A day after CBS’s visit, Russian state media claimed a rebel chemical weapons stockpile was discovered in the area.

Speaking before a meeting with the defense secretary of Qatar on Wednesday, U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis blamed the Syrian government for delaying the investigation of Douma.

“We are very much aware of the delay that the regime imposed on that delegation but we are also very much aware of how they have operated in the past and seal what they have done using chemical weapons,” Mattis said of the Syrian regime.

“In other words, using the pause after a strike like that to try to clean up the evidence before the investigation team gets in. So it’s unfortunate they were delayed,” he added.Inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) “arrived” in Douma, Syria, on Tuesday, but they were not able to enter the town and examine the sites where the Syrian government allegedly deployed chemical weapons.

As of Thursday, the inspection team is still on hold and has no timetable for examining the sites. It has now been almost two weeks since the attack occurred.

In a statement released on Wednesday, the OPCW explained that security for the sites that its fact-finding mission intended to visit was the responsibility of Russian military police. Arrangements were made for the Syrian military to escort the OPCW team to a “certain point,” where the Russians would take over.

The United Nations decided to send its own security team in advance. The results were discouraging:

On arrival at Site 1, a large crowd gathered and the advice provided by the UNDSS was that the reconnaissance team should withdraw. At Site 2, the team came under small arms fire and an explosive was detonated. The reconnaissance team returned to Damascus.

An “official close to the Syrian government” told Reuters the hostile crowd that materialized at the first site was protesting the U.S.-led airstrikes against Syria on Friday night.

“It was a message from the people,” the official claimed.

The U.N. is reportedly working with the Syrian government, local councils in Douma, and the Russians to “review the security situation,” but the OPCW does not know when its fact-finding mission will be allowed to visit the sites.

On Wednesday, Al-Jazeera slammed Syrian state media for misleading reports that suggested the OPCW inspectors had entered Douma and commenced their examination of the chemical attack sites, rather than being compelled to abandon their mission and return to safety.

Al-Jazeera’s report also pointed out that, only a few days ago, the Syrian and Russian governments claimed Douma had been “fully liberated from terrorists.”

CBS News reports that its correspondents were able to tour Douma this week and found the town “peaceful,” with residents “out on the streets and starting to clean up.” One resident told CBS that chemical weapons were used in Douma to deadly effect but insisted they were “dropped here by the terrorists,” not the Assad regime. A day after CBS’s visit, Russian state media claimed a rebel chemical weapons stockpile was discovered in the area.

Speaking before a meeting with the defense secretary of Qatar on Wednesday, U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis blamed the Syrian government for delaying the investigation of Douma.

“We are very much aware of the delay that the regime imposed on that delegation but we are also very much aware of how they have operated in the past and seal what they have done using chemical weapons,” Mattis said of the Syrian regime.

“In other words, using the pause after a strike like that to try to clean up the evidence before the investigation team gets in. So it’s unfortunate they were delayed,” he added.The Times of Israel reports: Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas welcomed a terrorist immediately upon his release from a 20-year sentence in Israel prison for murder, in an hour-long meeting that focused on Palestinian prisoners.

Rajaei Haddad was saluted by other Fatah members as “a leader, a hero, and a fighter.” Palestinian Authority TV showed footage of the meeting between Abbas and Haddad, who spent two decades in prison for his role in the November 1997 murder of yeshiva student Gabriel Hirschberg in the Old City of Jerusalem, in an April 10 television report. The report stressed “that our leadership gives top priority to the issue of our prisoners.”

Haddad told viewers of Abbas’ concern for the well-being of all the jailed Palestinian terrorists. “The president asked me about each and every one,” Haddad said. “We sat together for a full hour and he listened to me. He asked me about the prisoners, listened to me, and wrote down everything. The president sends his regards (to the prisoners).”

Read more here.The Times of Israel reports: Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas welcomed a terrorist immediately upon his release from a 20-year sentence in Israel prison for murder, in an hour-long meeting that focused on Palestinian prisoners.

Rajaei Haddad was saluted by other Fatah members as “a leader, a hero, and a fighter.” Palestinian Authority TV showed footage of the meeting between Abbas and Haddad, who spent two decades in prison for his role in the November 1997 murder of yeshiva student Gabriel Hirschberg in the Old City of Jerusalem, in an April 10 television report. The report stressed “that our leadership gives top priority to the issue of our prisoners.”

Haddad told viewers of Abbas’ concern for the well-being of all the jailed Palestinian terrorists. “The president asked me about each and every one,” Haddad said. “We sat together for a full hour and he listened to me. He asked me about the prisoners, listened to me, and wrote down everything. The president sends his regards (to the prisoners).”

Read more here.The Times of Israel reports: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in a fiery address at a torch-lighting ceremony marking Israel’s 70th Independence Day, declared that the Jewish state is becoming a “world power” and said its light will overcome its enemies’ “darkness.”

“We’re turning Israel into a rising world power,” Netanyahu said at Mount Herzl in Jerusalem before lighting a torch on behalf of all the governments of Israel since the founding of the state.

The prime minister thanked US President Donald Trump for his decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and move its embassy to the holy city next month. Alluding to unprecedentedly bellicose rhetoric from Iran, the prime minister vowed that no one would “extinguish” Israel’s “light.”

Read more here.The Times of Israel reports: Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in a fiery address at a torch-lighting ceremony marking Israel’s 70th Independence Day, declared that the Jewish state is becoming a “world power” and said its light will overcome its enemies’ “darkness.”

“We’re turning Israel into a rising world power,” Netanyahu said at Mount Herzl in Jerusalem before lighting a torch on behalf of all the governments of Israel since the founding of the state.

The prime minister thanked US President Donald Trump for his decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital and move its embassy to the holy city next month. Alluding to unprecedentedly bellicose rhetoric from Iran, the prime minister vowed that no one would “extinguish” Israel’s “light.”

Read more here.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R, KY) has torpedoed President Donald Trump’s plan to cut $60 billion in federal spending, despite a promise to open a “discussion” on the cuts.

Even after supporting and passing a $1.3 trillion increase in spending, McConnell said he would talk about a rescissions package that had the support of the president. However, McConnell has ultimately refused to support the plan, Conservative Review noted.

McConnell appeared on Fox News with host Neil Cavuto on April 17 and as the interview ended, the Sen. insisted that he could not make such an agreement to rescind any of the massive spending he supported during the budgeting process.

Cavuto noted that President Trump expressed shock that his cuts in spending were not added to the bill and said he would never sign such a bill again. The Fox host then asked if McConnell would try to rescind any of that spending.

But the majority leader said that he already brokered an agreement with the Democrats and that train has left the station. “You can’t make an agreement one month and say, ‘OK, we really didn’t mean it,'” McConnell said of a move to cut spending.

McConnell also took pains to remind Cavuto that Trump supported his spending bill and signed it into law. “He and his people were involved in the negotiations, they agreed to it, and he signed the bill.”

“We had an agreement with the Democrats,” the Kentuckian added.

The majority leader and his supporters maintained that the spending bill was a must pass because it contained the much-needed budget for the military. But as CR’s Chris Pandolfo noted, that excuse does not factor into any move to rescind some of the budgeted spending because the military budget is now already set in motion.

Perhaps the main reason why a bill to realize Trump’s spending cuts will not advance in the U.S. Senate is because Mitch McConnell does not want to support spending cuts, Pandolfo said.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Thursday on Fox Business Network’s “Varney & Company,” Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) argued special counsel Robert Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein needed to be investigated for their role in the investigation of the sale of U.S. uranium.

Gohmert said, “Now the reason I have been demanding a second special counsel since May of last year is because Mueller needs investigating. This is one of the things that didn’t, isn’t in the letter. Mueller needs investigating. Rosenstein need investigating. Those two investigated the Russia effort to illegally obtain 20% of our uranium. There was an investigation. They were in charge and somehow they quieted that enough in order for Hillary and her buddies to approve the sale of U.S. Uranium that would end up with Russia. And they need to be investigated. They don’t need to be investigators.”

He continued, “The problem is –crimes have been committed, and people have been involved in investigating them who were committing crimes. Comey has admitted as much. This has got to be cleaned out or, it’s like Tammany Hall never got investigated and never came to a head. You have to have something this big come to a head.”

He added, “It is tough for this President and this Attorney General to get things done when you have still got Obama lovers in the administration.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENThursday on Fox Business Network’s “Varney & Company,” Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-TX) argued special counsel Robert Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein needed to be investigated for their role in the investigation of the sale of U.S. uranium.

Gohmert said, “Now the reason I have been demanding a second special counsel since May of last year is because Mueller needs investigating. This is one of the things that didn’t, isn’t in the letter. Mueller needs investigating. Rosenstein need investigating. Those two investigated the Russia effort to illegally obtain 20% of our uranium. There was an investigation. They were in charge and somehow they quieted that enough in order for Hillary and her buddies to approve the sale of U.S. Uranium that would end up with Russia. And they need to be investigated. They don’t need to be investigators.”

He continued, “The problem is –crimes have been committed, and people have been involved in investigating them who were committing crimes. Comey has admitted as much. This has got to be cleaned out or, it’s like Tammany Hall never got investigated and never came to a head. You have to have something this big come to a head.”

He added, “It is tough for this President and this Attorney General to get things done when you have still got Obama lovers in the administration.”

Follow Pam Key on Twitter @pamkeyNENPittsburgh police forces have received word of a potential large-scale protest if President Donald Trump fires Robert Mueller.

The information leads them to believe this protest will take place in Pittsburgh’s Central Business District within 24 hours of Special Counsel Mueller’s much-theorized removal. “We may be needed to assist in the event that there is a large-scale protest,” an internal e-mail warned. “Based on this information, beginning tomorrow, April 19, 2018 all major crimes detectives are required to bring a full uniform and any issued protective equipment, riot gear, with them to work until further notice.”

WTAE-TV news reporter Marcie Cipriani tweeted a confirmation of the action by Mayor Bill Peduto himself. According to Cipriani, the mayor has called these measures strictly a matter of taking proper precautions. “You want to be precautionary, especially on something that is unprecedented in American history,” he said.

In an official statement, Pittsburgh Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich said:

The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police receives information faily that we evaluate and prepare for if the event should occur. Events can include anything from extreme weather to potential demonstrations. Often the events we prepare for do not occur. However, through an abundance of caution, we attempt to adequately prepare for an appropriate response. We receive information regularly about potential events and/or threats, assess the credibility of the information and plan for a potential event. In this case, we have not assessed the credibility of the potential for disturbances, and we do not have any knowledge of the President’s decision-making process.

But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is confident the issue will never even be raised. So confident, in fact, that he struck down an attempt to protect Mueller from termination, whether or not it is approved next week by the Senate Judiciary Committee. McConnell bluntly told Fox News that “we’ll not be having this on the floor of the Senate.”

Trump himself has been anything but shy about his opinion on both the Russia investigation and Mueller himself. He has called it “corrupt” and “an attack on our country,” led by “the most biased group of people.” But he has also “agreed with the historically cooperative, disciplined approach that we have engaged in with Robert Mueller,” saying that he has “full confidence in Ty Cobb, my Special Counsel, and have been fully advised throughout each phase of this process.”Pittsburgh police forces have received word of a potential large-scale protest if President Donald Trump fires Robert Mueller.

The information leads them to believe this protest will take place in Pittsburgh’s Central Business District within 24 hours of Special Counsel Mueller’s much-theorized removal. “We may be needed to assist in the event that there is a large-scale protest,” an internal e-mail warned. “Based on this information, beginning tomorrow, April 19, 2018 all major crimes detectives are required to bring a full uniform and any issued protective equipment, riot gear, with them to work until further notice.”

WTAE-TV news reporter Marcie Cipriani tweeted a confirmation of the action by Mayor Bill Peduto himself. According to Cipriani, the mayor has called these measures strictly a matter of taking proper precautions. “You want to be precautionary, especially on something that is unprecedented in American history,” he said.

In an official statement, Pittsburgh Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich said:

The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police receives information faily that we evaluate and prepare for if the event should occur. Events can include anything from extreme weather to potential demonstrations. Often the events we prepare for do not occur. However, through an abundance of caution, we attempt to adequately prepare for an appropriate response. We receive information regularly about potential events and/or threats, assess the credibility of the information and plan for a potential event. In this case, we have not assessed the credibility of the potential for disturbances, and we do not have any knowledge of the President’s decision-making process.

But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is confident the issue will never even be raised. So confident, in fact, that he struck down an attempt to protect Mueller from termination, whether or not it is approved next week by the Senate Judiciary Committee. McConnell bluntly told Fox News that “we’ll not be having this on the floor of the Senate.”

Trump himself has been anything but shy about his opinion on both the Russia investigation and Mueller himself. He has called it “corrupt” and “an attack on our country,” led by “the most biased group of people.” But he has also “agreed with the historically cooperative, disciplined approach that we have engaged in with Robert Mueller,” saying that he has “full confidence in Ty Cobb, my Special Counsel, and have been fully advised throughout each phase of this process.”Former FBI Director James Comey faced bipartisan heckling from protesters at his first book signing event in New York City.

As Comey spoke at the Wednesday night event at the Union Square Barnes & Noble store to promote his book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, conservative commentator Laura Loomer interrupted the speech and told Comey, “You’re going to get locked up.”

“Comey is a criminal!” Loomer shouted, adding that the former FBI director would be “prosecuted” for his “transgressions.”

Shortly after security ushered Loomer out of the event, an anti-Trump protester in her 20s got up and yelled, “Trump is a fascist!”

The anti-Trump protester held a sign that read, “Trump is a fascist and Comey is responsible.”

Security hauled that woman off the premises while the crowd of 250 people attending the event booed and shouted down both protesters.

Comey brushed off the protesters and continued to take questions from the audience.

Comey’s book has received bipartisan criticism from Clinton advisers and Trump administration officials.

Lanny Davis, who served as special counsel under President Bill Clinton, torched Comey in an op-ed for the Hill Sunday for “lying” in television interviews promoting the book.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders ripped Comey’s book on Friday, saying it belongs “in the bargain bin of the fiction section.”

Fox News Channel’s Jeanine Pirro also slammed Comey’s book, saying that his book is self-serving and serves no “higher loyalty” to anyone but himself.

WATCH: James Comey Gets Heckled by Protesters in New YorkFormer FBI Director James Comey faced bipartisan heckling from protesters at his first book signing event in New York City.

As Comey spoke at the Wednesday night event at the Union Square Barnes & Noble store to promote his book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, conservative commentator Laura Loomer interrupted the speech and told Comey, “You’re going to get locked up.”

“Comey is a criminal!” Loomer shouted, adding that the former FBI director would be “prosecuted” for his “transgressions.”

Shortly after security ushered Loomer out of the event, an anti-Trump protester in her 20s got up and yelled, “Trump is a fascist!”

The anti-Trump protester held a sign that read, “Trump is a fascist and Comey is responsible.”

Security hauled that woman off the premises while the crowd of 250 people attending the event booed and shouted down both protesters.

Comey brushed off the protesters and continued to take questions from the audience.

Comey’s book has received bipartisan criticism from Clinton advisers and Trump administration officials.

Lanny Davis, who served as special counsel under President Bill Clinton, torched Comey in an op-ed for the Hill Sunday for “lying” in television interviews promoting the book.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders ripped Comey’s book on Friday, saying it belongs “in the bargain bin of the fiction section.”

Fox News Channel’s Jeanine Pirro also slammed Comey’s book, saying that his book is self-serving and serves no “higher loyalty” to anyone but himself.

WATCH: James Comey Gets Heckled by Protesters in New YorkFormer FBI Director James Comey now says that he regrets making fun of President Donald Trump’s appearance in his ill-received tell-all book.

“If I had it to do over again I wouldn’t put that paragraph in, just because it gave people a hand-hold who hadn’t read the book to attack the book,” Comey said during an appearance on The View, according to the Hill newspaper.

In his book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, Comey described Trump’s face, his hands, and other attributes.

Comey described Trump’s face as “slightly orange,” and said he had “bright white half-moons under his eyes where I assumed he placed small tanning goggles.” Comey did say that he thought Trump’s hair was “all his.” He also described Trump’s hands reflecting the meanspirited joke about the President’s mitts.

But, Comey claimed that if he left out his description of Trump, it would be “inconsistent” of him.

Despite saying he wished he did not include the descriptions, he defended his decision. “I really wasn’t trying to pick on Donald Trump,” Comey insisted. “I could hear my editor’s voice saying ‘bring the reader, bring the reader,’ and so that’s what I’m trying to do.”

Still, Comey went on to say that the decision to include the descriptions has been a “distraction.”

“I do see people have seized on to that as a distraction, so honestly if I had to do it over again I would tear that paragraph out,” he said.

Comey’s book was released at midnight on April 16, and the media turned out in force at the Kramer Books store in Washington, DC. But while a dozen cameras and reporters huddled in the store to chronicle the hoards of customers that were sure to flood the place, it turned out only four people lined up that night to make their purchase.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.Former FBI Director James Comey now says that he regrets making fun of President Donald Trump’s appearance in his ill-received tell-all book.

“If I had it to do over again I wouldn’t put that paragraph in, just because it gave people a hand-hold who hadn’t read the book to attack the book,” Comey said during an appearance on The View, according to the Hill newspaper.

In his book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, Comey described Trump’s face, his hands, and other attributes.

Comey described Trump’s face as “slightly orange,” and said he had “bright white half-moons under his eyes where I assumed he placed small tanning goggles.” Comey did say that he thought Trump’s hair was “all his.” He also described Trump’s hands reflecting the meanspirited joke about the President’s mitts.

But, Comey claimed that if he left out his description of Trump, it would be “inconsistent” of him.

Despite saying he wished he did not include the descriptions, he defended his decision. “I really wasn’t trying to pick on Donald Trump,” Comey insisted. “I could hear my editor’s voice saying ‘bring the reader, bring the reader,’ and so that’s what I’m trying to do.”

Still, Comey went on to say that the decision to include the descriptions has been a “distraction.”

“I do see people have seized on to that as a distraction, so honestly if I had to do it over again I would tear that paragraph out,” he said.

Comey’s book was released at midnight on April 16, and the media turned out in force at the Kramer Books store in Washington, DC. But while a dozen cameras and reporters huddled in the store to chronicle the hoards of customers that were sure to flood the place, it turned out only four people lined up that night to make their purchase.

Follow Warner Todd Huston on Twitter @warnerthuston.In his debut speech as the “President” of Cuba on Thursday, Miguel Díaz-Canel, billed as Raúl Castro’s hand-picked successor, made abundantly clear that Castro would continue to govern the country, telling the National Assembly that Castro “will preside over all major decisions for the present and future of the nation.”

Cuba’s National Assembly convened on Wednesday to establish the candidacies for the president, vice president, and cabinet positions of the country. All such positions fall under the auspices of the Cuban Communist Party as per the constitution of Cuba. Díaz-Canel was the only candidate on the ballot for the presidency, though Raúl Castro remains the leader of the Communist Party, outranking President Díaz-Canel.

The newly-minted president, whose powers largely include convening National Assembly meetings (all members of the assembly are members of the Communist Party and vote according to Castro’s wishes), did not employ any nuance in accepting that his position as president did not grant him the power to run the country.

“Only the Communist Party of Cuba, the superior driving force of society and the state … is the dignified heir of the confidence that the people put in its leader,” he told the audience, to cheers. “Raúl will remain at the forefront of the political vanguard. He will still be the First Secretary, as the leader he is for the revolutionary cause, teaching and always ready to confront imperialism, the first one to grab a rifle at the hour of combat.”

“I assume the responsibility with the conviction that all revolutionaries, in any trench, will be loyal to Fidel and Raúl, the current leader of the revolutionary process,” Díaz-Canel added. “I affirm to this assembly that Comrade Raúl will preside over all major decisions for the present and future of the nation.”

Díaz-Canel warned outsiders that he would not allow any changes in the way the Cuban government operated. “I ratify that Cuba’s foreign policy will remain inalterable. Cuba will not accept conditions,” he added, without specifying what type of conditions he meant.

“To those who, either because of ignorance or bad faith, doubt our commitment, I must say that the Revolution continues and will continue. The world has received a false message that the Revolution has done away with its warriors,” the president added, presumably a response to international mainstream media coverage claiming that the Cuban regime was at a “transformative” crossroads and that the replacement of Castro with his preferred comrade would somehow change the regime.

At half an hour, Díaz-Canel’s first speech as president is significantly shorter than the average speeches delivered by Fidel and Raúl Castro, which could easily last over four hours.

The Communist Party publication Granma published a short biography and photo essay of Díaz-Canel, a former engineer, on Thursday, noting his longtime status as a faithful Communist, former leading of the Union of Young Communists, and veteran of the communist terrorist action in Nicaragua. He also served as minister of education before being elevated to the position of First Vice President. Díaz-Canel openly boasted of helping intimidate opposition candidates out of appearing on National Assembly ballots a year ago, as well, insisting that granting “legitimacy” to pro-democracy voices by allowing them on any ballots would be “counter-revolutionary.”

In addition to submitting to Castro’s prolonged leadership, Díaz-Canel will have to contend with a coterie of younger Castros scattered throughout the government. The highest ranking other than the Communist Party chief is Colonel Alejandro Castro Espín, Raúl’s son, who controls State Security.In his debut speech as the “President” of Cuba on Thursday, Miguel Díaz-Canel, billed as Raúl Castro’s hand-picked successor, made abundantly clear that Castro would continue to govern the country, telling the National Assembly that Castro “will preside over all major decisions for the present and future of the nation.”

Cuba’s National Assembly convened on Wednesday to establish the candidacies for the president, vice president, and cabinet positions of the country. All such positions fall under the auspices of the Cuban Communist Party as per the constitution of Cuba. Díaz-Canel was the only candidate on the ballot for the presidency, though Raúl Castro remains the leader of the Communist Party, outranking President Díaz-Canel.

The newly-minted president, whose powers largely include convening National Assembly meetings (all members of the assembly are members of the Communist Party and vote according to Castro’s wishes), did not employ any nuance in accepting that his position as president did not grant him the power to run the country.

“Only the Communist Party of Cuba, the superior driving force of society and the state … is the dignified heir of the confidence that the people put in its leader,” he told the audience, to cheers. “Raúl will remain at the forefront of the political vanguard. He will still be the First Secretary, as the leader he is for the revolutionary cause, teaching and always ready to confront imperialism, the first one to grab a rifle at the hour of combat.”

“I assume the responsibility with the conviction that all revolutionaries, in any trench, will be loyal to Fidel and Raúl, the current leader of the revolutionary process,” Díaz-Canel added. “I affirm to this assembly that Comrade Raúl will preside over all major decisions for the present and future of the nation.”

Díaz-Canel warned outsiders that he would not allow any changes in the way the Cuban government operated. “I ratify that Cuba’s foreign policy will remain inalterable. Cuba will not accept conditions,” he added, without specifying what type of conditions he meant.

“To those who, either because of ignorance or bad faith, doubt our commitment, I must say that the Revolution continues and will continue. The world has received a false message that the Revolution has done away with its warriors,” the president added, presumably a response to international mainstream media coverage claiming that the Cuban regime was at a “transformative” crossroads and that the replacement of Castro with his preferred comrade would somehow change the regime.

At half an hour, Díaz-Canel’s first speech as president is significantly shorter than the average speeches delivered by Fidel and Raúl Castro, which could easily last over four hours.

The Communist Party publication Granma published a short biography and photo essay of Díaz-Canel, a former engineer, on Thursday, noting his longtime status as a faithful Communist, former leading of the Union of Young Communists, and veteran of the communist terrorist action in Nicaragua. He also served as minister of education before being elevated to the position of First Vice President. Díaz-Canel openly boasted of helping intimidate opposition candidates out of appearing on National Assembly ballots a year ago, as well, insisting that granting “legitimacy” to pro-democracy voices by allowing them on any ballots would be “counter-revolutionary.”

In addition to submitting to Castro’s prolonged leadership, Díaz-Canel will have to contend with a coterie of younger Castros scattered throughout the government. The highest ranking other than the Communist Party chief is Colonel Alejandro Castro Espín, Raúl’s son, who controls State Security.WASHINGTON, DC — The Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) remains a “potent” menace in Libya more than a year after U.S.-backed local forces pushed the group out of former stronghold Sirte, experts told a House panel.

Soon after the Islamic State (IS) lost Sirte in December 2016, U.S. and Libyan officials began warning about a potential resurgence of the terrorist group, noting that the jihadists were regrouping elsewhere in Libya, namely the desert valleys and inland hills southeast of the country.

In written testimony prepared for a hearing Wednesday held by the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and Africa, Christopher Blanchard, a specialist in Middle Eastern affairs at the Congressional Research Service (CRS), acknowledged:

Transnational terrorist groups and locally organized armed extremist groups, including supporters of the Islamic State organization and Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), remain active in Libya. Some IS fighters appear to have regrouped in rural areas after fleeing Sirte in late 2016, and the group claimed a series of attacks on Libyan forces in 2017.

Robyn Mack, a spokeswoman for U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM), predicted early this year that ISIS would “give priority to the restructuring of security forces and infrastructure, and to launch strikes, which may include targets in the Libyan oil crescent.”

While testifying before U.S. lawmakers in March, Gen. Thomas Waldhauser, the AFRICOM commander, described ISIS as “dispersed and disorganized and likely capable of little more than localized attacks.”

However, Frederic Wehrey, a senior fellow for the Middle East Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, cautioned in his written testimony prepared for the House panel hearing Wednesday that the group presents a “potent” threat, telling lawmakers:

The aftermath of Sirte also raises the question of the Islamic State’s potential reemergence. Based on my discussions with Libyan officials, the Islamic State has fled to the desert southwest of the city where it remains dispersed but still potent. It could easily exploit Libya’s political divisions and the inability or unwillingness of Libya’s armed groups to confront it. We have seen this before when Libya’s opposing factions were so focused on battling one another that they ignored the growing radical presence in their midst. This is why national-level political reconciliation is so important, along with unifying and reforming the security sector.

Echoing the other expert witnesses, Alice Friend, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) also testified that ISIS is still active in Libya.

The group maintains “a scattered presence in the East and South, and the commander of Africa Command testified that the U.S. conducted eight strikes against ISIS targets in late 2017 and early 2018,” she wrote.

Although ISIS has suffered significant losses in its collapsing caliphate in Iraq and Syria, the group remains a serious threat outside those two countries, particularly in Yemen, Somalia, Libya, West Africa, Egypt, Bangladesh, Philippines, and Tunisia.

ISIS jihadists are “adapting” to their ongoing demise in Iraq and Syria by intensifying their activity “in all” other corners of the world, including Africa, Bangladesh, and Southeast Asia, Nathan Sales, the counterterrorism coordinator at the U.S. Department of State, told reporters last month.

The U.S. intelligence community’s Worldwide Threat Assessment unveiled in February predicted that ISIS would “enhancing its global presence, championing its cause, planning international attacks, and encouraging its members and sympathizers to attack in their home countries” this year.

“ISIS’s claim of having a functioning caliphate that governs populations is all but thwarted … Outside Iraq and Syria, ISIS’s goal of fostering interconnectivity and resiliency among its global branches and networks probably will result in local and, in some cases, regional attack plans,” it added.WASHINGTON, DC — The Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) remains a “potent” menace in Libya more than a year after U.S.-backed local forces pushed the group out of former stronghold Sirte, experts told a House panel.

Soon after the Islamic State (IS) lost Sirte in December 2016, U.S. and Libyan officials began warning about a potential resurgence of the terrorist group, noting that the jihadists were regrouping elsewhere in Libya, namely the desert valleys and inland hills southeast of the country.

In written testimony prepared for a hearing Wednesday held by the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and Africa, Christopher Blanchard, a specialist in Middle Eastern affairs at the Congressional Research Service (CRS), acknowledged:

Transnational terrorist groups and locally organized armed extremist groups, including supporters of the Islamic State organization and Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), remain active in Libya. Some IS fighters appear to have regrouped in rural areas after fleeing Sirte in late 2016, and the group claimed a series of attacks on Libyan forces in 2017.

Robyn Mack, a spokeswoman for U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM), predicted early this year that ISIS would “give priority to the restructuring of security forces and infrastructure, and to launch strikes, which may include targets in the Libyan oil crescent.”

While testifying before U.S. lawmakers in March, Gen. Thomas Waldhauser, the AFRICOM commander, described ISIS as “dispersed and disorganized and likely capable of little more than localized attacks.”

However, Frederic Wehrey, a senior fellow for the Middle East Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, cautioned in his written testimony prepared for the House panel hearing Wednesday that the group presents a “potent” threat, telling lawmakers:

The aftermath of Sirte also raises the question of the Islamic State’s potential reemergence. Based on my discussions with Libyan officials, the Islamic State has fled to the desert southwest of the city where it remains dispersed but still potent. It could easily exploit Libya’s political divisions and the inability or unwillingness of Libya’s armed groups to confront it. We have seen this before when Libya’s opposing factions were so focused on battling one another that they ignored the growing radical presence in their midst. This is why national-level political reconciliation is so important, along with unifying and reforming the security sector.

Echoing the other expert witnesses, Alice Friend, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) also testified that ISIS is still active in Libya.

The group maintains “a scattered presence in the East and South, and the commander of Africa Command testified that the U.S. conducted eight strikes against ISIS targets in late 2017 and early 2018,” she wrote.

Although ISIS has suffered significant losses in its collapsing caliphate in Iraq and Syria, the group remains a serious threat outside those two countries, particularly in Yemen, Somalia, Libya, West Africa, Egypt, Bangladesh, Philippines, and Tunisia.

ISIS jihadists are “adapting” to their ongoing demise in Iraq and Syria by intensifying their activity “in all” other corners of the world, including Africa, Bangladesh, and Southeast Asia, Nathan Sales, the counterterrorism coordinator at the U.S. Department of State, told reporters last month.

The U.S. intelligence community’s Worldwide Threat Assessment unveiled in February predicted that ISIS would “enhancing its global presence, championing its cause, planning international attacks, and encouraging its members and sympathizers to attack in their home countries” this year.

“ISIS’s claim of having a functioning caliphate that governs populations is all but thwarted … Outside Iraq and Syria, ISIS’s goal of fostering interconnectivity and resiliency among its global branches and networks probably will result in local and, in some cases, regional attack plans,” it added.The Turkish Islamist Justice and Development Party (AKP) announced on Wednesday that it would hold snap parliamentary elections on June 24, expected to reinforce President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s control of national policy.

The nationwide election will be the first to occur since the mass arrests of leaders of the Kurdish-friendly Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) in 2016 for allegedly supporting the terrorist Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK). The HDP significantly undermined AKP control of the Turkish parliament in the June 2015 elections, before Erdogan called a repeat election in November that undid the gains of opposition parties.

Erdogan told reporters on Wednesday that the election was particularly necessary in light of “Operation Olive Branch,” the Turkish invasion of northern Syria to eradicate the U.S.-allied Syrian Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG/YPJ). Turkish troops have overrun and now control Afrin, a city at the heart of Syrian Kurdistan (Rojava), and have threatened to enter nearby Manbij, where U.S. troops are stationed helping their Kurdish allies train to fight the Islamic State.

“Turkey’s cross-border operation in Syria and the situation in both Syria and Iraq obliged Turkey to overcome uncertainties as soon as possible,” Erdogan said on Wednesday. “At a time when developments in Syria have accelerated and we have to take very important decisions, from macroeconomic equilibrium to large investments, the election issue should be taken off the table as soon as possible.”

Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım, who technically leads the parliament, confirmed that preparations for elections will “start immediately.” For the election to occur on June 24, the Turkish Parliament must approve a bill calling for the vote. Lawmakers will debate the bill on April 20, according to the Turkish newspaper Hurriyet.

The ruling AKP has already announced that it would begin holding election rallies in May. “The campaign process will likely start around May 15, we will have big rallies attended by the President and the Prime Minister,” Islamist party spokesman Mahir Unal said on Thursday, according to the state-run Anadolu Agency. Unal claimed that “the latest polls,” which Anadolu did not name, show the AKP with a lead of 55.6 percent of the vote over all other parties.

AKP leaders have expressed full confidence that they will win.

“Early polls will positively affect the economy. There will be no need for run-off elections. The result of the [presidential] elections is now certain after the reaction of the markets,” deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ said on Thursday. “Whoever wins the elections on June 24 will have a perspective for five years. There will be no question of whether or not a government can be formed after the polls.”

He joked that opposition parties seem “to have been caught in the rain without an umbrella.”

Turkey’s major parties are the AKP, the secularist Republican People’s Party (CHP), and the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), which typically votes with the AKP and called for this summer’s election.

Making its debut in this year’s election will be the İYİ (Good) Party, formed in 2017 by former Minister of the Interior Meral Aksener after her expulsion from the MHP for opposing pro-Erdogan leader Devlet Bahçeli. The İYİ party stands against Erdogan’s push to switch the nation away from a parliamentary system and towards a presidential one, which would grant Erdogan sweeping executive powers without any of the checks on his control that exist in presidential systems like that of the United States.

Aksener told reporters Wednesday that she expects her party to do well. The İYİ Party will run in the election and will win,” she said. On Tuesday, before the official parliamentary push for elections, Aksener insisted, “there is nothing to be alarmed about from our point of view. We have come to this stage after overcoming difficulties in the face of all the heavy smearing launched against us.”

Turkey last held parliamentary elections in 2015. In June of that year, the secularist, pro-religious-minority HDP gained significantly, earning 12 percent of the vote and helping chip down the number of AKP members of parliament to fewer than 276 seats.

Shortly following their victory, Erdogan began accusing the party of collaborating with terrorists for opposing the military takeover of southern Turkey’s Diyarbakir city, home to much of the nation’s Kurdish minority. Erdogan also called for a second election in November, which the AKP won handily after two million new voters mysteriously appeared on the rolls, more than the total number of new voters registered between 2011 and 2015.

A year later, the two co-chairs of the HDP and a dozen other leaders of the party were arrested for allegedly collaborating with the PKK. Most remain in prison today.

“I don’t care if they call me a dictator or whatever else,” Erdogan said shortly following the arrests. “It goes in one ear, out the other.”

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.The Turkish Islamist Justice and Development Party (AKP) announced on Wednesday that it would hold snap parliamentary elections on June 24, expected to reinforce President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s control of national policy.

The nationwide election will be the first to occur since the mass arrests of leaders of the Kurdish-friendly Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) in 2016 for allegedly supporting the terrorist Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK). The HDP significantly undermined AKP control of the Turkish parliament in the June 2015 elections, before Erdogan called a repeat election in November that undid the gains of opposition parties.

Erdogan told reporters on Wednesday that the election was particularly necessary in light of “Operation Olive Branch,” the Turkish invasion of northern Syria to eradicate the U.S.-allied Syrian Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG/YPJ). Turkish troops have overrun and now control Afrin, a city at the heart of Syrian Kurdistan (Rojava), and have threatened to enter nearby Manbij, where U.S. troops are stationed helping their Kurdish allies train to fight the Islamic State.

“Turkey’s cross-border operation in Syria and the situation in both Syria and Iraq obliged Turkey to overcome uncertainties as soon as possible,” Erdogan said on Wednesday. “At a time when developments in Syria have accelerated and we have to take very important decisions, from macroeconomic equilibrium to large investments, the election issue should be taken off the table as soon as possible.”

Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım, who technically leads the parliament, confirmed that preparations for elections will “start immediately.” For the election to occur on June 24, the Turkish Parliament must approve a bill calling for the vote. Lawmakers will debate the bill on April 20, according to the Turkish newspaper Hurriyet.

The ruling AKP has already announced that it would begin holding election rallies in May. “The campaign process will likely start around May 15, we will have big rallies attended by the President and the Prime Minister,” Islamist party spokesman Mahir Unal said on Thursday, according to the state-run Anadolu Agency. Unal claimed that “the latest polls,” which Anadolu did not name, show the AKP with a lead of 55.6 percent of the vote over all other parties.

AKP leaders have expressed full confidence that they will win.

“Early polls will positively affect the economy. There will be no need for run-off elections. The result of the [presidential] elections is now certain after the reaction of the markets,” deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ said on Thursday. “Whoever wins the elections on June 24 will have a perspective for five years. There will be no question of whether or not a government can be formed after the polls.”

He joked that opposition parties seem “to have been caught in the rain without an umbrella.”

Turkey’s major parties are the AKP, the secularist Republican People’s Party (CHP), and the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), which typically votes with the AKP and called for this summer’s election.

Making its debut in this year’s election will be the İYİ (Good) Party, formed in 2017 by former Minister of the Interior Meral Aksener after her expulsion from the MHP for opposing pro-Erdogan leader Devlet Bahçeli. The İYİ party stands against Erdogan’s push to switch the nation away from a parliamentary system and towards a presidential one, which would grant Erdogan sweeping executive powers without any of the checks on his control that exist in presidential systems like that of the United States.

Aksener told reporters Wednesday that she expects her party to do well. The İYİ Party will run in the election and will win,” she said. On Tuesday, before the official parliamentary push for elections, Aksener insisted, “there is nothing to be alarmed about from our point of view. We have come to this stage after overcoming difficulties in the face of all the heavy smearing launched against us.”

Turkey last held parliamentary elections in 2015. In June of that year, the secularist, pro-religious-minority HDP gained significantly, earning 12 percent of the vote and helping chip down the number of AKP members of parliament to fewer than 276 seats.

Shortly following their victory, Erdogan began accusing the party of collaborating with terrorists for opposing the military takeover of southern Turkey’s Diyarbakir city, home to much of the nation’s Kurdish minority. Erdogan also called for a second election in November, which the AKP won handily after two million new voters mysteriously appeared on the rolls, more than the total number of new voters registered between 2011 and 2015.

A year later, the two co-chairs of the HDP and a dozen other leaders of the party were arrested for allegedly collaborating with the PKK. Most remain in prison today.

“I don’t care if they call me a dictator or whatever else,” Erdogan said shortly following the arrests. “It goes in one ear, out the other.”

Follow Frances Martel on Facebook and Twitter.A young woman from Boston says she was re-victimized by a state court that allowed her illegal alien alleged rapist to flee the country after being released on bond. Despite an immigration detainer being placed on the suspect, a judge allowed the man to be released while still in possession of his passport, police say. He quickly fled the country and returned to his native Ghana.

Rape victim Emily Murray, who insisted on being identified, told Breitbart Texas that the district attorney’s office and even her own court-appointed victim’s advocate are trying to get her to stay silent about the errors that allowed the alleged rapist, 30-year-old Frederick Quaicoo Amfo to flee the country.

“I was failed by my state, Uber and [ICE] officials,” the frustrated rape victim said in a Facebook message to this writer. “I was raped and have been repeatedly victimized over the past week. My rapist ESCAPED the country even though he was a criminal and [an] illegal alien who was out on bail.”

“My state-appointed advocate, the state, and basically everyone messed up [are] trying to keep me quiet,” she said.

Amfo’s release on bond came after a Quincy District Court judge allowed the illegally present Ghanan national to be released, giving him 24 hours to return with his passport. The judge also failed to send the immigration detainer along with the release documents for the Norfolk County jail officials to review. As a result, the jail did not contact ICE prior to Amfo’s release.

“They attempted to make me feel better by saying he lost his $10,000 bond money and is no longer in the country,” Murray told Breitbart Texas in a phone interview Wednesday evening. “It’s like they are trying to put a dollar sign on my body. The worst part is, if he comes back, he can do it to someone else.”

Amfo picked up Murray while working as an Uber driver on April 8, Fox News reported. As he drove her toward her home, Amfo allegedly locked her in the back seat and sexually assaulted her. “Within minutes, I was in a situation I couldn’t control and I was assaulted,” Murray told Fox25’s Bob Ward.

ICE now saying alleged rapist who fled to Ghana from Massachusetts was in the US illegally. “This case highlights the potential dangers of policies that prohibit cooperation with ICE.” Victim is furious. More @boston25 6 pic.twitter.com/hKY6N9ZOhG — Bob Ward Boston 25 (@Bward3) April 17, 2018

Hospital officials took a DNA sample and a rape kit. The DNA and evidence found in Amfo’s vehicle led to his arrest a few days after the alleged attack.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials told Breitbart Texas they issued an immigration detainer after learning the Ghanan national was “unlawfully present in the U.S.”

“That detainer should have followed the alien as he transferred from the Quincy Court House. The court chose not to forward the detainer to Norfolk County, allowing for his subsequent release on bail from custody,” ICE officials said in a statement provided to Breitbart Texas on Wednesday. “This case highlights the potential dangers of policies that prohibit cooperation with ICE.”

Court records obtained by Fox25 in Boston revealed that the Quincy District Court judge set a $10,000 bond on the suspected rapist and allowed him to be released while still in possession of his passport. The judge ordered Amfo to surrender his passport within 24 hours. He did not. By Monday afternoon, Amfo allegedly fled the U.S. to Ghana.

“The DA’s office did not contact me about his release from jail,” Murray told Breitbart Texas. “Instead, I received an email from Boston PD telling me he was gone.”

“I saw him in court on Friday, he had an arraignment the next day, and now he’s gone,” she expressed.

The Massachusetts Trial Court said it followed the Assistant District Attorney Moira Daly’s recommendation for the $10,000 cash bond, the Boston Herald reported. In a written statement, the court said:

A review of the circumstances indicates that the court allowed the defendant to be released without first surrendering his passport, providing him 24 hours to do so. As a result of this review, the court has now implemented procedures to ensure that defendants who are ordered by the court to surrender their passports surrender them when they post bail and prior to their release.

The Norfolk County District Attorney’s Office would not respond to a question from the Boston Herald about why the prosecutor did not request a GPS monitoring device, a dangerousness hearing, or a higher bail which might have kept Amfo in the country.

ICE officials told Breitbart Texas that Amfo has been “illegally present since 2009.” The official said ICE moved quickly to place a detainer on the suspected rapist.

“The detainer that was issued was delivered to the local Police Department, which delivered it to the state court,” the ICE official stated. “The state court failed to deliver the detainer request to the correctional facility.”

The official could not comment on whether the alleged rapist entered the U.S. illegally or if he overstayed a visa.

Murray contacted Breitbart Texas after reading a story about a similar case that occurred in Boston less than a year ago. On May 5, 2017, Breitbart Texas reported about an illegal immigrant Uber driver from the Dominican Republic who was released by a Massachusetts judge after the suspect allegedly raped a Boston College student.

Prosecutors asked the judge for a $100,000 bond and told her that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers were working on getting a detainer on the alleged rapist. Instead, Newton District Court Judge Mary Beth Heffernan “insisted on $2,500 bail,” the Boston Herald reported.

Following the second rape allegedly committed by an illegally present Uber driver in the past year, a company spokesperson told the Boston Herald, “What’s been reported is unacceptable. The driver has been removed from the app, and we are looking into this.”

Murray expressed her concern that Amfo could eventually return to the U.S. and attack more women.

Breitbart Texas has reported extensively on the efforts by Border Patrol agents to apprehend previously deported sex offenders and rapists.

On Tuesday, Breitbart Texas reported that Border Patrol agents in South Texas arrested seven previously deported sex offenders, rapists, and child sex offenders in one week.

As to why Murray wanted her identity released, “Before I put my name and face out there, I was case number, and now I’m a person,” she told the Patriot Ledger. “I’m a human, I’m a mother. Now they have to look me in the face and tell me what happened.”A young woman from Boston says she was re-victimized by a state court that allowed her illegal alien alleged rapist to flee the country after being released on bond. Despite an immigration detainer being placed on the suspect, a judge allowed the man to be released while still in possession of his passport, police say. He quickly fled the country and returned to his native Ghana.

Rape victim Emily Murray, who insisted on being identified, told Breitbart Texas that the district attorney’s office and even her own court-appointed victim’s advocate are trying to get her to stay silent about the errors that allowed the alleged rapist, 30-year-old Frederick Quaicoo Amfo to flee the country.

“I was failed by my state, Uber and [ICE] officials,” the frustrated rape victim said in a Facebook message to this writer. “I was raped and have been repeatedly victimized over the past week. My rapist ESCAPED the country even though he was a criminal and [an] illegal alien who was out on bail.”

“My state-appointed advocate, the state, and basically everyone messed up [are] trying to keep me quiet,” she said.

Amfo’s release on bond came after a Quincy District Court judge allowed the illegally present Ghanan national to be released, giving him 24 hours to return with his passport. The judge also failed to send the immigration detainer along with the release documents for the Norfolk County jail officials to review. As a result, the jail did not contact ICE prior to Amfo’s release.

“They attempted to make me feel better by saying he lost his $10,000 bond money and is no longer in the country,” Murray told Breitbart Texas in a phone interview Wednesday evening. “It’s like they are trying to put a dollar sign on my body. The worst part is, if he comes back, he can do it to someone else.”

Amfo picked up Murray while working as an Uber driver on April 8, Fox News reported. As he drove her toward her home, Amfo allegedly locked her in the back seat and sexually assaulted her. “Within minutes, I was in a situation I couldn’t control and I was assaulted,” Murray told Fox25’s Bob Ward.

ICE now saying alleged rapist who fled to Ghana from Massachusetts was in the US illegally. “This case highlights the potential dangers of policies that prohibit cooperation with ICE.” Victim is furious. More @boston25 6 pic.twitter.com/hKY6N9ZOhG — Bob Ward Boston 25 (@Bward3) April 17, 2018

Hospital officials took a DNA sample and a rape kit. The DNA and evidence found in Amfo’s vehicle led to his arrest a few days after the alleged attack.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officials told Breitbart Texas they issued an immigration detainer after learning the Ghanan national was “unlawfully present in the U.S.”

“That detainer should have followed the alien as he transferred from the Quincy Court House. The court chose not to forward the detainer to Norfolk County, allowing for his subsequent release on bail from custody,” ICE officials said in a statement provided to Breitbart Texas on Wednesday. “This case highlights the potential dangers of policies that prohibit cooperation with ICE.”

Court records obtained by Fox25 in Boston revealed that the Quincy District Court judge set a $10,000 bond on the suspected rapist and allowed him to be released while still in possession of his passport. The judge ordered Amfo to surrender his passport within 24 hours. He did not. By Monday afternoon, Amfo allegedly fled the U.S. to Ghana.

“The DA’s office did not contact me about his release from jail,” Murray told Breitbart Texas. “Instead, I received an email from Boston PD telling me he was gone.”

“I saw him in court on Friday, he had an arraignment the next day, and now he’s gone,” she expressed.

The Massachusetts Trial Court said it followed the Assistant District Attorney Moira Daly’s recommendation for the $10,000 cash bond, the Boston Herald reported. In a written statement, the court said:

A review of the circumstances indicates that the court allowed the defendant to be released without first surrendering his passport, providing him 24 hours to do so. As a result of this review, the court has now implemented procedures to ensure that defendants who are ordered by the court to surrender their passports surrender them when they post bail and prior to their release.

The Norfolk County District Attorney’s Office would not respond to a question from the Boston Herald about why the prosecutor did not request a GPS monitoring device, a dangerousness hearing, or a higher bail which might have kept Amfo in the country.

ICE officials told Breitbart Texas that Amfo has been “illegally present since 2009.” The official said ICE moved quickly to place a detainer on the suspected rapist.

“The detainer that was issued was delivered to the local Police Department, which delivered it to the state court,” the ICE official stated. “The state court failed to deliver the detainer request to the correctional facility.”

The official could not comment on whether the alleged rapist entered the U.S. illegally or if he overstayed a visa.

Murray contacted Breitbart Texas after reading a story about a similar case that occurred in Boston less than a year ago. On May 5, 2017, Breitbart Texas reported about an illegal immigrant Uber driver from the Dominican Republic who was released by a Massachusetts judge after the suspect allegedly raped a Boston College student.

Prosecutors asked the judge for a $100,000 bond and told her that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers were working on getting a detainer on the alleged rapist. Instead, Newton District Court Judge Mary Beth Heffernan “insisted on $2,500 bail,” the Boston Herald reported.

Following the second rape allegedly committed by an illegally present Uber driver in the past year, a company spokesperson told the Boston Herald, “What’s been reported is unacceptable. The driver has been removed from the app, and we are looking into this.”

Murray expressed her concern that Amfo could eventually return to the U.S. and attack more women.

Breitbart Texas has reported extensively on the efforts by Border Patrol agents to apprehend previously deported sex offenders and rapists.

On Tuesday, Breitbart Texas reported that Border Patrol agents in South Texas arrested seven previously deported sex offenders, rapists, and child sex offenders in one week.

As to why Murray wanted her identity released, “Before I put my name and face out there, I was case number, and now I’m a person,” she told the Patriot Ledger. “I’m a human, I’m a mother. Now they have to look me in the face and tell me what happened.”Constant cartel gun battles, ambushes on police, and raids on villagers turned the rural areas of Guerrero into a war zone as combatants seek control of the region’s poppy production.

In the most recent series of clashes, six state police officers were ambushed by cartel gunmen near Zihuatanejo. The officers were checking on a group of nine families in the rural community of Petatlan, near the city of Mesillas, in the rural part of the state where they have become the victims of constant raids and attacks by cartel gunmen. The gunmen were pressuring and kidnapping local families to recruit allies or discourage cooperation with rival cartels.



According to information released to Breitbart Texas by law enforcement officials in Guerrero, the six police officers were traveling in a vehicle when gunmen ambushed them. After the police officers suffered wounds, the attackers are believed to have gone up to the officers and shot them in their heads–execution style. It is believed the ambush was a revenge plot for a prior gun battle where 10 cartel gunmen died.

The ambush comes one day after cartel gunmen attacked a convoy of officers near Cuacoyul. The police were riding in two SUVs and came under fire from at least 20 cartel shooters. During the initial attack, despite being outnumbered, the officers killed three gunmen and forced the rest to disperse into the surrounding areas. Authorities called for military and federal police backup to track down the attackers. The follow-up shootout went on for more than one hour, during a time when police forces managed to kill seven additional gunmen.

Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, Nuevo León and other areas to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by Jose Luis Lara, a former leading member who helped start the Self-Defense Movement in Michoacán.Constant cartel gun battles, ambushes on police, and raids on villagers turned the rural areas of Guerrero into a war zone as combatants seek control of the region’s poppy production.

In the most recent series of clashes, six state police officers were ambushed by cartel gunmen near Zihuatanejo. The officers were checking on a group of nine families in the rural community of Petatlan, near the city of Mesillas, in the rural part of the state where they have become the victims of constant raids and attacks by cartel gunmen. The gunmen were pressuring and kidnapping local families to recruit allies or discourage cooperation with rival cartels.



According to information released to Breitbart Texas by law enforcement officials in Guerrero, the six police officers were traveling in a vehicle when gunmen ambushed them. After the police officers suffered wounds, the attackers are believed to have gone up to the officers and shot them in their heads–execution style. It is believed the ambush was a revenge plot for a prior gun battle where 10 cartel gunmen died.

The ambush comes one day after cartel gunmen attacked a convoy of officers near Cuacoyul. The police were riding in two SUVs and came under fire from at least 20 cartel shooters. During the initial attack, despite being outnumbered, the officers killed three gunmen and forced the rest to disperse into the surrounding areas. Authorities called for military and federal police backup to track down the attackers. The follow-up shootout went on for more than one hour, during a time when police forces managed to kill seven additional gunmen.

Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, Nuevo León and other areas to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by Jose Luis Lara, a former leading member who helped start the Self-Defense Movement in Michoacán.CIUDAD VICTORIA, Tamaulipas — State authorities are investigating a recent homicide where cartel gunmen left three bags containing the dismembered remains of a man whose eyes were also removed. The bloody scene is indicative of the ongoing war for criminal control of the city.

Residents of the Marte R. Gomez neighborhood reported the murder by calling authorities after noticing three black bags left in a vacant lot with blood seeping out from them. The neighborhood is on the east side of the city and is considered one of the poorest with a high index of violence.

Officers with Fuerza Tamaulipas arrived and confirmed the neighbors’ reports when they found the remains of an unidentified man believed to be 30 to 35 years old. In addition to dismemberment, the victim’s eyes were apparently removed as well.

Next to one of the bags, authorities found a poster board signed by the Gulf Cartel which featured threats directed toward the rival Los Zetas Cartel. It is unknown if the group they threatened is the Northeast Cartel or Old School Zetas faction.



“There is your dog, damn Gafe that’s how I’m going to be finishing them off come on out to the fight you shit we are here in the plaza” CDG.

The message mentions the name “Gafe,” which is suspected to be the name used by one of Los Zetas’ regional leaders. The true name of the Gafe mentioned in the message remains unknown since there have been several who have used the name in the past.

Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Nuevo León to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities. The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “Francisco Morales” from Tamaulipas.CIUDAD VICTORIA, Tamaulipas — State authorities are investigating a recent homicide where cartel gunmen left three bags containing the dismembered remains of a man whose eyes were also removed. The bloody scene is indicative of the ongoing war for criminal control of the city.

Residents of the Marte R. Gomez neighborhood reported the murder by calling authorities after noticing three black bags left in a vacant lot with blood seeping out from them. The neighborhood is on the east side of the city and is considered one of the poorest with a high index of violence.

Officers with Fuerza Tamaulipas arrived and confirmed the neighbors’ reports when they found the remains of an unidentified man believed to be 30 to 35 years old. In addition to dismemberment, the victim’s eyes were apparently removed as well.

Next to one of the bags, authorities found a poster board signed by the Gulf Cartel which featured threats directed toward the rival Los Zetas Cartel. It is unknown if the group they threatened is the Northeast Cartel or Old School Zetas faction.



“There is your dog, damn Gafe that’s how I’m going to be finishing them off come on out to the fight you shit we are here in the plaza” CDG.

The message mentions the name “Gafe,” which is suspected to be the name used by one of Los Zetas’ regional leaders. The true name of the Gafe mentioned in the message remains unknown since there have been several who have used the name in the past.

Editor’s Note: Breitbart Texas traveled to the Mexican States of Tamaulipas, Coahuila, and Nuevo León to recruit citizen journalists willing to risk their lives and expose the cartels silencing their communities. The writers would face certain death at the hands of the various cartels that operate in those areas including the Gulf Cartel and Los Zetas if a pseudonym were not used. Breitbart Texas’ Cartel Chronicles are published in both English and in their original Spanish. This article was written by “Francisco Morales” from Tamaulipas.A poll released by UC Berkeley’s Haas Institute for a Fair and Inclusive Society, a left-wing organization, found some shocking results in the far-left state of California, including a desire from a clear majority of 59 percent to “increase deportations” of illegal immigrants.

California, which advertises itself as a progressive sanctuary state for illegal aliens, has been on the front-lines fighting against President Donald Trump’s push to finally enforce America’s immigration laws. From all of the reporting coming from our disgraced media, you would be led to believe that not only is all of California opposed to enforcing immigration law, but a majority of the American people. Hidden in this survey, however, is a truth our media never tells, as well as a number of other interesting finds.

While 59 percent of Californians believe it is very (24 percent) or somewhat (35 percent) important to increase deportations of illegals, in the bluer than blue Bay Area, that number holds at 60 percent.

If you are dumb enough to believe the American media, here are some other findings you will consider counter-intuitive:

A full 49 percent of Californians support Trump’s ban on refugees from failed countries (only 51 percent oppose). Even in the Bay Area, 44 percent support Trump’s ban.

Only 54 percent of oh-so lefty, tolerant Californians have a positive view of Muslims.

A full 88 percent say that speaking English is important.

On the issue of assimilation, a huge majority of Californians (73 percent) — including 69 percent of Latinos and 67 percent of blacks — believe that it is “either somewhat or very important to blend into the larger society.”

A majority of 58 percent believe “raising taxes on corporations would either hurt the California economy or make no difference.”

Only 42 percent believe raising taxes on corporations would “help the California economy.”

As far as the government fixing “income inequality,” a clear majority of 54 percent say that “the government should play a minor role or no role at all,” while only 46 percent want the government to play a “major” role.

As California’s breathtaking homeless, inequality, and illegal immigration failures reach a point to where even a sympathetic news media can no longer cover them up, the public appears to be waking up. There also appears to be a backlash brewing against Gov. Jerry Brown (D-CA) and his rubber stamps in the Democrat-infested state legislature — at least when it comes to allowing countless numbers of illegals to pour in.

California’s elite do not ever have to face the effects of unfettered illegal immigration, what it does to lower working class wages, steal jobs, undermine public education, the gangs, the crime… The everyday people do, though, and resentment is simmering.

Don’t misunderstand me, the California population-at-large is still left-wing on a number of other issues in this poll, but the numbers above are what you would expect from a state that Trump won, not one that he lost by a whopping 29 points.

In fact, because of the way our news media attempts to shape rather than report on reality, 59 percent wanting increased deportations would be a surprising find in any state, which brings me to my closing point…

If these numbers look like this in The People’s Republic of California, imagine the support Trump enjoys on these issues in the other 49 states.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.A poll released by UC Berkeley’s Haas Institute for a Fair and Inclusive Society, a left-wing organization, found some shocking results in the far-left state of California, including a desire from a clear majority of 59 percent to “increase deportations” of illegal immigrants.

California, which advertises itself as a progressive sanctuary state for illegal aliens, has been on the front-lines fighting against President Donald Trump’s push to finally enforce America’s immigration laws. From all of the reporting coming from our disgraced media, you would be led to believe that not only is all of California opposed to enforcing immigration law, but a majority of the American people. Hidden in this survey, however, is a truth our media never tells, as well as a number of other interesting finds.

While 59 percent of Californians believe it is very (24 percent) or somewhat (35 percent) important to increase deportations of illegals, in the bluer than blue Bay Area, that number holds at 60 percent.

If you are dumb enough to believe the American media, here are some other findings you will consider counter-intuitive:

A full 49 percent of Californians support Trump’s ban on refugees from failed countries (only 51 percent oppose). Even in the Bay Area, 44 percent support Trump’s ban.

Only 54 percent of oh-so lefty, tolerant Californians have a positive view of Muslims.

A full 88 percent say that speaking English is important.

On the issue of assimilation, a huge majority of Californians (73 percent) — including 69 percent of Latinos and 67 percent of blacks — believe that it is “either somewhat or very important to blend into the larger society.”

A majority of 58 percent believe “raising taxes on corporations would either hurt the California economy or make no difference.”

Only 42 percent believe raising taxes on corporations would “help the California economy.”

As far as the government fixing “income inequality,” a clear majority of 54 percent say that “the government should play a minor role or no role at all,” while only 46 percent want the government to play a “major” role.

As California’s breathtaking homeless, inequality, and illegal immigration failures reach a point to where even a sympathetic news media can no longer cover them up, the public appears to be waking up. There also appears to be a backlash brewing against Gov. Jerry Brown (D-CA) and his rubber stamps in the Democrat-infested state legislature — at least when it comes to allowing countless numbers of illegals to pour in.

California’s elite do not ever have to face the effects of unfettered illegal immigration, what it does to lower working class wages, steal jobs, undermine public education, the gangs, the crime… The everyday people do, though, and resentment is simmering.

Don’t misunderstand me, the California population-at-large is still left-wing on a number of other issues in this poll, but the numbers above are what you would expect from a state that Trump won, not one that he lost by a whopping 29 points.

In fact, because of the way our news media attempts to shape rather than report on reality, 59 percent wanting increased deportations would be a surprising find in any state, which brings me to my closing point…

If these numbers look like this in The People’s Republic of California, imagine the support Trump enjoys on these issues in the other 49 states.

Follow John Nolte on Twitter @NolteNC. Follow his Facebook Page here.The California Senate passed a super “Net Neutrality” law just as the Obama-era regulation of the Internet is set to be expire on April 23.

ARS Technica reported California Senate Bill SB 822 was passed out of Senate Energy, Utilities and Communications on an 8-3 vote this week to prohibit Internet service providers (ISP) like AT&T and Spectrum from charging fees to “edge providers” that supply content to “end users” that are the recipients of content.

The bill goes farther than the federal regulatory effort because of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), according to the non-partisan Legislative Analyst’s Office.

CLRA allows California lawyers to form class action lawsuits to sue corporations to enjoin methods, acts, or practices; restitution of property; punitive damages; court costs and attorney’s fees; and any other relief that the court deems proper. What makes it a wildly profitable business for ambulance chasers is the structure that plaintiff attorney’s fees are recoverable, but defendant’s attorney costs are usually not recoverable.

Net neutrality has always sounded user friendly in forcing Internet service providers (ISP)s to not slow down, speed up, or block data as it is routed from its content originator to end users, but it was lobbying by Silicon Valley companies to the tune of $139.5 million in 2014 that led to regulating the Internet under Title II of the 1934 Communications Act, making ISPs public utilities subject to the iron grip of theFederal Communications Commission (FCC).

But in the highly competitive free market of multiple ISPs, consumers can easily flip vendors. AT&T’s blocking of Apple’s FaceTime video chat application on iPhones in 2012 and 2013 for eating up too much bandwidth capacity led to massive amounts of defections to other ISP’s. AT&T was forced to increase capacity and allow unlimited FaceTime.

California’s net neutrality would go much further than the FCC rules by being more restrictive of paid prioritization and zero-rating, which allow consumers to access certain Internet content and services without it counting against their monthly data plans.

Democrat-dominated Washington and Oregon have already passed their own net neutrality laws after the December 2017 FCC repeal vote. Vermont, Hawaii, Montana, New Jersey, and New York governors have issued executive orders that impose net neutrality rules on ISPs that provide Internet service to any state government agencies.The California Senate passed a super “Net Neutrality” law just as the Obama-era regulation of the Internet is set to be expire on April 23.

ARS Technica reported California Senate Bill SB 822 was passed out of Senate Energy, Utilities and Communications on an 8-3 vote this week to prohibit Internet service providers (ISP) like AT&T and Spectrum from charging fees to “edge providers” that supply content to “end users” that are the recipients of content.

The bill goes farther than the federal regulatory effort because of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA), according to the non-partisan Legislative Analyst’s Office.

CLRA allows California lawyers to form class action lawsuits to sue corporations to enjoin methods, acts, or practices; restitution of property; punitive damages; court costs and attorney’s fees; and any other relief that the court deems proper. What makes it a wildly profitable business for ambulance chasers is the structure that plaintiff attorney’s fees are recoverable, but defendant’s attorney costs are usually not recoverable.

Net neutrality has always sounded user friendly in forcing Internet service providers (ISP)s to not slow down, speed up, or block data as it is routed from its content originator to end users, but it was lobbying by Silicon Valley companies to the tune of $139.5 million in 2014 that led to regulating the Internet under Title II of the 1934 Communications Act, making ISPs public utilities subject to the iron grip of theFederal Communications Commission (FCC).

But in the highly competitive free market of multiple ISPs, consumers can easily flip vendors. AT&T’s blocking of Apple’s FaceTime video chat application on iPhones in 2012 and 2013 for eating up too much bandwidth capacity led to massive amounts of defections to other ISP’s. AT&T was forced to increase capacity and allow unlimited FaceTime.

California’s net neutrality would go much further than the FCC rules by being more restrictive of paid prioritization and zero-rating, which allow consumers to access certain Internet content and services without it counting against their monthly data plans.

Democrat-dominated Washington and Oregon have already passed their own net neutrality laws after the December 2017 FCC repeal vote. Vermont, Hawaii, Montana, New Jersey, and New York governors have issued executive orders that impose net neutrality rules on ISPs that provide Internet service to any state government agencies.Billionaire left-wing donor Tom Steyer announced Wednesday that he is endorsing State Sen. Kevin de Léon (D-Los Angeles) over incumbent Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in the primary race for U.S. Senate in California.

De Léon has trailed badly in the polls and in fundraising. However, he has attracted the support of many in California’s vocal and powerful left-wing activist community, which views Feinstein as too accommodating towards President Donald Trump.

Steyer has spent tens of millions of dollars on an advertising campaign promoting the idea that Trump should be impeached.

“I think he’s the kind of young progressive that reflects California and would be a very strong advocate for our state nationally,” Steyer said, according to the Los Angeles Times.

He also added: “I have nothing bad to say about Dianne Feinstein.”

The San Francisco Chronicle noted the irony of De Léon turning to a wealthy billionaire for support (original link):

U.S. Senate candidate Kevin de León likes to needle his opponent Sen. Dianne Feinstein for living in a “mansion surrounded by a wall.” But he welcomed the endorsement Wednesday of one of Feinstein’s wealthy San Francisco neighbors, billionaire activist and former hedge fund manager Tom Steyer.

The San Jose Mercury-News noted that the impact of Steyer’s endorsement remains to be seen, and will depend on how much money he spends to promote De Léon.

Because of California’s “jungle primary” system, in which the top two finishers advance to the general election regardless of party, Feinstein and De Léon will likely face off in November again no matter who wins on June 5.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.

Photo: fileBillionaire left-wing donor Tom Steyer announced Wednesday that he is endorsing State Sen. Kevin de Léon (D-Los Angeles) over incumbent Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) in the primary race for U.S. Senate in California.

De Léon has trailed badly in the polls and in fundraising. However, he has attracted the support of many in California’s vocal and powerful left-wing activist community, which views Feinstein as too accommodating towards President Donald Trump.

Steyer has spent tens of millions of dollars on an advertising campaign promoting the idea that Trump should be impeached.

“I think he’s the kind of young progressive that reflects California and would be a very strong advocate for our state nationally,” Steyer said, according to the Los Angeles Times.

He also added: “I have nothing bad to say about Dianne Feinstein.”

The San Francisco Chronicle noted the irony of De Léon turning to a wealthy billionaire for support (original link):

U.S. Senate candidate Kevin de León likes to needle his opponent Sen. Dianne Feinstein for living in a “mansion surrounded by a wall.” But he welcomed the endorsement Wednesday of one of Feinstein’s wealthy San Francisco neighbors, billionaire activist and former hedge fund manager Tom Steyer.

The San Jose Mercury-News noted that the impact of Steyer’s endorsement remains to be seen, and will depend on how much money he spends to promote De Léon.

Because of California’s “jungle primary” system, in which the top two finishers advance to the general election regardless of party, Feinstein and De Léon will likely face off in November again no matter who wins on June 5.

Joel B. Pollak is Senior Editor-at-Large at Breitbart News. He was named to Forward’s 50 “most influential” Jews in 2017. He is the co-author of How Trump Won: The Inside Story of a Revolution, which is available from Regnery. Follow him on Twitter at @joelpollak.

Photo: fileThe US Geological Survey (USGS) has issued a report on the 112th-year anniversary of the San Francisco Earthquake warning that 7.0 quake on the San Andreas Fault’s big brother, called the Hayward Fault, could create a massive liquefaction event (sandy soils becoming liquid-like) along much of the East Bay periphery.

The Hayward Fault was named California’s “tectonic time bomb” in 2007 by seismologist Tom Brocher, due to the growing risk for 2 million Bay Area people that live above it.

The USGS estimates a main-shock collapse of 2,500 buildings, 800 killed people and 18,000 severe injuries. People stuck in elevators could also die over the following days. Emergency workers would be overwhelmed with more than 22,000 people requiring rescue from stalled elevators.

With water mains broken, secondary shock would include about 400 natural gas fires erupting and potentially destroying 52,000 homes. About 152,000 households would be displaced due to damage or lack of access, causing approximately 411,000 people to be displaced. The estimated total financial loss would be about $82 billion.

The buildup of pressure along the northern San Andreas fault in the 1800s produced a series of magnitude 6.0 or greater earthquakes, eventually leading to the 1906 magnitude 7.8 San Francisco Earthquake. But California’s 1868 magnitude 7-plus quake along the 75-mile Hayward Fault may have been largest and potentially deadliest quake, had more people been living in the area..

The U.S. Geological Survey led a collaborative effort with United Research Services, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Stanford University, and the University of California at Berkeley created computer simulations in 2008 for anticipated earthquakes on the Hayward fault.

Researchers are concerned that the last large quake along the Hayward Fault was in October 1868. Scientists have documented 12 major prehistoric earthquakes along the fault over the past 1,900 years that re-occur in about 150-year intervals, which means the clock is ticking.

Researchers are especially concerned that the Hayward Fault’s 45-mile long little sister the Rodgers Creek Fault, which runs from Santa Rosa south to just north of Richmond in San Pablo Bay, could combine in an epic cascading 130-mile long monster earthquake.

USGS earthquake geologist emeritus David Schwartz commented to the Los Angeles Times regarding the risk of a 7.0 magnitude eruption along the Hayward Fault, “It’s just waiting to go off.”

The USGS offers an online information booklet published in several languages called “Putting Down Roots in Earthquake Country” that can serve as a guide to prepare for what experts believe is the inevitable large earthquake to strike the San Francisco Bay region.The US Geological Survey (USGS) has issued a report on the 112th-year anniversary of the San Francisco Earthquake warning that 7.0 quake on the San Andreas Fault’s big brother, called the Hayward Fault, could create a massive liquefaction event (sandy soils becoming liquid-like) along much of the East Bay periphery.

The Hayward Fault was named California’s “tectonic time bomb” in 2007 by seismologist Tom Brocher, due to the growing risk for 2 million Bay Area people that live above it.

The USGS estimates a main-shock collapse of 2,500 buildings, 800 killed people and 18,000 severe injuries. People stuck in elevators could also die over the following days. Emergency workers would be overwhelmed with more than 22,000 people requiring rescue from stalled elevators.

With water mains broken, secondary shock would include about 400 natural gas fires erupting and potentially destroying 52,000 homes. About 152,000 households would be displaced due to damage or lack of access, causing approximately 411,000 people to be displaced. The estimated total financial loss would be about $82 billion.

The buildup of pressure along the northern San Andreas fault in the 1800s produced a series of magnitude 6.0 or greater earthquakes, eventually leading to the 1906 magnitude 7.8 San Francisco Earthquake. But California’s 1868 magnitude 7-plus quake along the 75-mile Hayward Fault may have been largest and potentially deadliest quake, had more people been living in the area..

The U.S. Geological Survey led a collaborative effort with United Research Services, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Stanford University, and the University of California at Berkeley created computer simulations in 2008 for anticipated earthquakes on the Hayward fault.

Researchers are concerned that the last large quake along the Hayward Fault was in October 1868. Scientists have documented 12 major prehistoric earthquakes along the fault over the past 1,900 years that re-occur in about 150-year intervals, which means the clock is ticking.

Researchers are especially concerned that the Hayward Fault’s 45-mile long little sister the Rodgers Creek Fault, which runs from Santa Rosa south to just north of Richmond in San Pablo Bay, could combine in an epic cascading 130-mile long monster earthquake.

USGS earthquake geologist emeritus David Schwartz commented to the Los Angeles Times regarding the risk of a 7.0 magnitude eruption along the Hayward Fault, “It’s just waiting to go off.”

The USGS offers an online information booklet published in several languages called “Putting Down Roots in Earthquake Country” that can serve as a guide to prepare for what experts believe is the inevitable large earthquake to strike the San Francisco Bay region.Charlotte “Charlie” Fien, a British pro-life activist with Down syndrome, was reportedly blocked by Twitter for 24 hours this week after posting pro-life materials.

The 22-year-old English girl with just under 2,000 followers was up in arms over Twitter’s heavy-handed move, especially since the social media giant routinely allows pro-abortion users to post anything they want without censorship.

“Funny how Twitter allows willy pics and boobs,” she cracked. “Funny how Twitter allows paedophiles and other scum. Funny how Twitter doesn’t like my Pro Life pics and blocks them.”

Hi Followers,

After more than 24 hours I’m allowed back into my Twitter account. Funny how Twitter allows willy pics and boobs. Funny how Twitter allows paedophiles and other scum. Funny how Twitter doesn’t like my Pro Life pics and blocks them. Here’s a pic just 4 you Twitter pic.twitter.com/KSqhUWume3 — Charlie Fien (@fien_charlie) April 17, 2018

Having dedicated her life to promoting of the rights of people with disabilities and the right to life of the unborn, Charlie addressed the United Nations in March 2017 on these very issues, after which she received a five-minute standing ovation.

On behalf of persons with Down syndrome, Charlie told the UN: “I am not suffering. I am not ill. None of my friends who have DS are suffering either. We live happy lives. We are still human beings.”

“Don’t be afraid of me or feel sorry for me. I’m just like you but different. I have an extra chromosome and it’s not stopping me from enjoying my life,” she said.

“Please do not try to kill us all off. Do not allow this test,” she said, referring to a prenatal diagnosis used to detect Down syndrome. “If you do allow it you are no better than the Nazis who killed 200,000 disabled people. I have a right to live and so do other people like me.”

Last month Charlie addressed Ireland’s Rally for Life and received a rapturous welcome. In her address, Charlie praised the people of Ireland for their laws in defense of disabled people and the unborn.

“Ireland is one of the only countries in the world where babies with Down’s syndrome are safe inside their mother’s wombs. In my country England, 90% of babies with Down’s syndrome are aborted up to birth,” she said.

As Ireland gears up for a major referendum on its Eighth Amendment, which guarantees the right to life of unborn children, Ms. Fien connected the dots between abortion and Down syndrome.

“Saving the 8th will save the lives of babies with Down’s syndrome,” she said, since “discrimination begins before birth and lasts our entire lives.”

Urging the Irish people not to open the door to abortion, Charlie warned her hearers that by doing so they would be “opening yourselves up to Eugenics.”

“I have watched a 1st-, 2nd- and 3rd-trimester abortion,” she said. “I have seen babies being ripped apart Their limbs ripped off their bodies! Abortion is MURDER but not just any murder; It’s murdering your own child!” she said.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromeCharlotte “Charlie” Fien, a British pro-life activist with Down syndrome, was reportedly blocked by Twitter for 24 hours this week after posting pro-life materials.

The 22-year-old English girl with just under 2,000 followers was up in arms over Twitter’s heavy-handed move, especially since the social media giant routinely allows pro-abortion users to post anything they want without censorship.

“Funny how Twitter allows willy pics and boobs,” she cracked. “Funny how Twitter allows paedophiles and other scum. Funny how Twitter doesn’t like my Pro Life pics and blocks them.”

Hi Followers,

After more than 24 hours I’m allowed back into my Twitter account. Funny how Twitter allows willy pics and boobs. Funny how Twitter allows paedophiles and other scum. Funny how Twitter doesn’t like my Pro Life pics and blocks them. Here’s a pic just 4 you Twitter pic.twitter.com/KSqhUWume3 — Charlie Fien (@fien_charlie) April 17, 2018

Having dedicated her life to promoting of the rights of people with disabilities and the right to life of the unborn, Charlie addressed the United Nations in March 2017 on these very issues, after which she received a five-minute standing ovation.

On behalf of persons with Down syndrome, Charlie told the UN: “I am not suffering. I am not ill. None of my friends who have DS are suffering either. We live happy lives. We are still human beings.”

“Don’t be afraid of me or feel sorry for me. I’m just like you but different. I have an extra chromosome and it’s not stopping me from enjoying my life,” she said.

“Please do not try to kill us all off. Do not allow this test,” she said, referring to a prenatal diagnosis used to detect Down syndrome. “If you do allow it you are no better than the Nazis who killed 200,000 disabled people. I have a right to live and so do other people like me.”

Last month Charlie addressed Ireland’s Rally for Life and received a rapturous welcome. In her address, Charlie praised the people of Ireland for their laws in defense of disabled people and the unborn.

“Ireland is one of the only countries in the world where babies with Down’s syndrome are safe inside their mother’s wombs. In my country England, 90% of babies with Down’s syndrome are aborted up to birth,” she said.

As Ireland gears up for a major referendum on its Eighth Amendment, which guarantees the right to life of unborn children, Ms. Fien connected the dots between abortion and Down syndrome.

“Saving the 8th will save the lives of babies with Down’s syndrome,” she said, since “discrimination begins before birth and lasts our entire lives.”

Urging the Irish people not to open the door to abortion, Charlie warned her hearers that by doing so they would be “opening yourselves up to Eugenics.”

“I have watched a 1st-, 2nd- and 3rd-trimester abortion,” she said. “I have seen babies being ripped apart Their limbs ripped off their bodies! Abortion is MURDER but not just any murder; It’s murdering your own child!” she said.

Follow Thomas D. Williams on Twitter Follow @tdwilliamsromeSen. Rand Paul has agreed to meet with CIA Director Mike Pompeo, President Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State.

The president publicly applied pressure on Paul after it became clear he would need the Kentucky Senator’s support to confirm his nominee in the Senate.

“Rand Paul is a very special guy, as far as I’m concerned. He’s never let me down,” Trump said. “And I don’t think he’ll let us down again. So let’s see what happens.”

Paul, who serves on the Foreign Relations Committee, has publicly opposed Pompeo’s nomination, citing his defense of the Iraq war and hawkish view on foreign policy with Iran.

Paul confirmed to reporters that he would meet with Pompeo on Thursday after receiving a call from Trump.

Meanwhile, the White House is working behind the scenes to break Democrat opposition to Pompeo, particularly in the Foreign Relations Committee.

As Sen. John McCain remains absent from the Senate as he battles brain cancer, the close votes are even closer and Republicans can not afford any dissent.

Sen. Tom Cotton criticized Paul for opposing Pompeo’s nomination.

“Sen. Paul has unusual foreign policy views that are not representative of the Republican Senate Caucus,” he said in a call with reporters on Thursday.

Secretary of State nominations traditionally pass with wide bi-partisan approval. Despite many of them supporting Pompeo’s confirmation for CIA Director, many are more reluctant to support his leadership of the State Department. If the Senate Foreign Realtions Committee fails to endorse Pompeo, he could still pass a confirmation vote in the full Senate.

Cotton predicted that red-state Democrats facing tough re-election fights may support Pompeo’s confirmation.Sen. Rand Paul has agreed to meet with CIA Director Mike Pompeo, President Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State.

The president publicly applied pressure on Paul after it became clear he would need the Kentucky Senator’s support to confirm his nominee in the Senate.

“Rand Paul is a very special guy, as far as I’m concerned. He’s never let me down,” Trump said. “And I don’t think he’ll let us down again. So let’s see what happens.”

Paul, who serves on the Foreign Relations Committee, has publicly opposed Pompeo’s nomination, citing his defense of the Iraq war and hawkish view on foreign policy with Iran.

Paul confirmed to reporters that he would meet with Pompeo on Thursday after receiving a call from Trump.

Meanwhile, the White House is working behind the scenes to break Democrat opposition to Pompeo, particularly in the Foreign Relations Committee.

As Sen. John McCain remains absent from the Senate as he battles brain cancer, the close votes are even closer and Republicans can not afford any dissent.

Sen. Tom Cotton criticized Paul for opposing Pompeo’s nomination.

“Sen. Paul has unusual foreign policy views that are not representative of the Republican Senate Caucus,” he said in a call with reporters on Thursday.

Secretary of State nominations traditionally pass with wide bi-partisan approval. Despite many of them supporting Pompeo’s confirmation for CIA Director, many are more reluctant to support his leadership of the State Department. If the Senate Foreign Realtions Committee fails to endorse Pompeo, he could still pass a confirmation vote in the full Senate.

Cotton predicted that red-state Democrats facing tough re-election fights may support Pompeo’s confirmation.The Senate Foreign Relations Committee announced Thursday morning it will hold a vote for CIA Director Mike Pompeo Monday at 5 p.m. to confirm him as secretary of state.

The vote comes fresh off the news that Pompeo secretly met with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un over Easter weekend, to further lay the groundwork for President Trump and Kim’s upcoming meeting.

With more Republicans than Democrats on the committee, a vote confirming Pompeo is expected to make it out of committee, but he could run into trouble on the Senate floor, with Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) opposing him and Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) in Arizona recovering from cancer treatment.

Senate Democrats — some who even voted to confirm Pompeo as CIA Director — are now lining up against him as the nominee to become secretary of state, arguing he is not the right person for the job.

Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) announced last Friday that he would oppose Pompeo based on his personal stance that same-sex persons should not marry — the same views that former President Obama had when Booker endorsed him.

Booker has also refused to confirm Trump’s first prominent openly-gay appointee Ric Grenell for U.S. Ambassador to Germany, despite overwhelming support from gay rights groups.

Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) on Wednesday came out against Pompeo, arguing that his record is “deeply troubling” and that he has not been forthcoming about the Russian investigation.

Sen. Ben Cardin (D-M.D.), the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, then came out against him, arguing that he would not be an independent voice advising the president.

Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.), the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Pompeo would not be a check on an “impulsive, inexperienced president” and restore the morale of the State Department.

Pompeo will need at least one Democrat — with Paul opposing and McCain absent — to help confirm him. Republicans control 51 seats in the Senate, but will need 50 votes to get him over the threshold.

Pompeo has courted Democrat votes, even calling former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to seek her advice before his confirmation hearing last week.

Democrats in red and purple states have yet to say how they will vote, including Sens. Joe Donnelly (R-IN), Maggie Hassan (NH), Heidi Heitkamp (ND), Joe Manchin (WV), and Claire McCaskill (MO) — who recently criticized Clinton.

This story was updated.The Senate Foreign Relations Committee announced Thursday morning it will hold a vote for CIA Director Mike Pompeo Monday at 5 p.m. to confirm him as secretary of state.

The vote comes fresh off the news that Pompeo secretly met with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un over Easter weekend, to further lay the groundwork for President Trump and Kim’s upcoming meeting.

With more Republicans than Democrats on the committee, a vote confirming Pompeo is expected to make it out of committee, but he could run into trouble on the Senate floor, with Sen. Rand Paul (R-KY) opposing him and Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) in Arizona recovering from cancer treatment.

Senate Democrats — some who even voted to confirm Pompeo as CIA Director — are now lining up against him as the nominee to become secretary of state, arguing he is not the right person for the job.

Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) announced last Friday that he would oppose Pompeo based on his personal stance that same-sex persons should not marry — the same views that former President Obama had when Booker endorsed him.

Booker has also refused to confirm Trump’s first prominent openly-gay appointee Ric Grenell for U.S. Ambassador to Germany, despite overwhelming support from gay rights groups.

Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.) on Wednesday came out against Pompeo, arguing that his record is “deeply troubling” and that he has not been forthcoming about the Russian investigation.

Sen. Ben Cardin (D-M.D.), the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, then came out against him, arguing that he would not be an independent voice advising the president.

Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.), the top Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, said Pompeo would not be a check on an “impulsive, inexperienced president” and restore the morale of the State Department.

Pompeo will need at least one Democrat — with Paul opposing and McCain absent — to help confirm him. Republicans control 51 seats in the Senate, but will need 50 votes to get him over the threshold.

Pompeo has courted Democrat votes, even calling former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to seek her advice before his confirmation hearing last week.

Democrats in red and purple states have yet to say how they will vote, including Sens. Joe Donnelly (R-IN), Maggie Hassan (NH), Heidi Heitkamp (ND), Joe Manchin (WV), and Claire McCaskill (MO) — who recently criticized Clinton.

This story was updated.Trump opponent Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) tried to block the typically less political procedural confirmation vote for NASA administrator Wednesday, only to flip his vote when it became clear the nomination would otherwise fail.

Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK), a former U.S. Navy pilot, one-time director of the Tulsa Air and Space Museum, and strong advocate for space exploration spending during his tenure in Congress, eventually passed the full Senate with a vote of 50-48. The vote advanced his September nomination by President Donald Trump towards fruition with a final vote expected later this week.

The vote was initially tied 49-49, with Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) still not taking his seat in the Senate for medical reasons and Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) abstaining. The lame-duck Flake had joined Democrats who opposed Bridenstine’s nomination on the basis not being sufficiently alarmist over man-made global warming at his confirmation hearing and, like several earlier NASA administrators, being neither a scientist nor a retired astronaut.

Flake’s exact motives for holding up Bridenstine are unknown. Later, however, Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) indicated to CNN that Flake, known at the end of his Senate career mostly for his frequent jabs at President Trump and his steadfast support for amnesty for illegal aliens, may have been trying to get leverage on another of Trump’s nominees. “He has an issue he wants to talk to (CIA) Director (Mike) Pompeo about. He was looking for assurances he would have that opportunity and I’m confident he will have that chance this afternoon,” Cornyn said. “I think there are some issues related to travel restrictions to Cuba.”

Vice President Mike Pence, who normally would break a tie, was at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida with the president and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and was unavailable to come to Capitol Hill to do so. Perhaps realizing Bridenstine’s nominee would fail, or perhaps securing the concessions he wanted from fellow Republicans, Flake relented after nearly an hour, switching his vote to yea.

Pence will presumably be on hand to break the tie should there be any repetition of this affair at Bridenstine’s final vote.Trump opponent Sen. Jeff Flake (R-AZ) tried to block the typically less political procedural confirmation vote for NASA administrator Wednesday, only to flip his vote when it became clear the nomination would otherwise fail.

Rep. Jim Bridenstine (R-OK), a former U.S. Navy pilot, one-time director of the Tulsa Air and Space Museum, and strong advocate for space exploration spending during his tenure in Congress, eventually passed the full Senate with a vote of 50-48. The vote advanced his September nomination by President Donald Trump towards fruition with a final vote expected later this week.

The vote was initially tied 49-49, with Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) still not taking his seat in the Senate for medical reasons and Sen. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) abstaining. The lame-duck Flake had joined Democrats who opposed Bridenstine’s nomination on the basis not being sufficiently alarmist over man-made global warming at his confirmation hearing and, like several earlier NASA administrators, being neither a scientist nor a retired astronaut.

Flake’s exact motives for holding up Bridenstine are unknown. Later, however, Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) indicated to CNN that Flake, known at the end of his Senate career mostly for his frequent jabs at President Trump and his steadfast support for amnesty for illegal aliens, may have been trying to get leverage on another of Trump’s nominees. “He has an issue he wants to talk to (CIA) Director (Mike) Pompeo about. He was looking for assurances he would have that opportunity and I’m confident he will have that chance this afternoon,” Cornyn said. “I think there are some issues related to travel restrictions to Cuba.”

Vice President Mike Pence, who normally would break a tie, was at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida with the president and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and was unavailable to come to Capitol Hill to do so. Perhaps realizing Bridenstine’s nominee would fail, or perhaps securing the concessions he wanted from fellow Republicans, Flake relented after nearly an hour, switching his vote to yea.

Pence will presumably be on hand to break the tie should there be any repetition of this affair at Bridenstine’s final vote.