CIA Director Mike Pompeo, President Trump’s pick to be the next secretary of state, told his Senate confirmation hearing Thursday that he wanted to continue to “push back” against aggressive moves by Russia.

Pompeo told lawmakers on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that if he was confirmed he would continue the administration's work to “re-set” policy on Russia -- an apparent jab at the Obama administration’s troubled “re-set” policy in regards to Russia.

“If I am confirmed as secretary of state I can assure you this administration will continue as it has for the past 15 months to take real actions, to push back, to re-set the deterrence relationship with respect to Russia,” he said.

Pompeo cited sanctions and the expulsion of diplomats as proof of the administration's tougher stance on Russia.

In his prepared remarks, he had warned that Russia has been acting “aggressively” and represents a danger to the U.S.

At the hearing, Pompeo also rejected reports that he was a hardliner or a hawk, saying that “there’s no one like someone who has served in uniform who understands the value of diplomacy and the terror and tragedy that is war.” Pompeo's military career included serving as a cavalry officer patrolling the Iron Curtain before the fall of the Berlin Wall, according to his White House biography.

“It is the last resort, it must always be so. I intend to achieve the president's policy by diplomacy rather than by sending our young men and women to war,” he said. “I know I'm serving a president who feels the same way.”

Pompeo’s entrance to the committee room was met by anti-war protesters, who wielded signs and yelled “No Pompeo, no more war.” One protester was removed from the hearing when she interrupted the procedure.

On Russia, Pompeo was grilled by Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., on conversations he was reported to have had with Trump about FBI Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe.

Pompeo declined to be drawn into discussing what he had discussed with Trump, but said the president had never asked him to do anything “improper.” He did say that he had met and spoken with Mueller but declined to talk about the investigation and other questions related to the probe.

Pompeo said he would also prioritize filling what he described as “demoralizing” vacancies that festered under former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, whom Trump fired last month.

On the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, Pompeo said he wants to “fix this deal.”

Pompeo wouldn't say explicitly if he'd advocate a withdrawal if there's no fix by Trump's May 12 deadline, suggesting there could be an extension if significant progress was being made by then. Still, he affirmed that he won't support staying in over the long term unless more restrictions are placed on Tehran.

Display nothing; This is on Publish with no configured Image

"If there's no chance that we can fix it, I will recommend to the president that we work with our allies to achieve a better outcome and to achieve a better deal," Pompeo said.

Still, he acknowledged that Iran, technically speaking, is not violating the terms of the 2015 accord between the U.S., Iran and other world powers, adding: "I have seen no evidence that they are not in compliance."

As the hearing wrapped up, Menendez recited a series of contradictory statements from Pompeo on issues ranging from the Iran deal to gay marriage before wondering aloud: "Which of the Mike Pompeos am I being asked to vote on?"

By contrast, committee chairman Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., praised Pompeo as a "person of high intellect" and vowed "avidly support" his nomination.

Fox News' Samuel Chamberlain and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Despite having pulled out of the trade deal last year, President Trump has reportedly asked his top trade officials to negotiate re-entering the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP).

He told a group of Republican senators at the White House he would ask Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Larry Kudlow, his national economic council chairman, to “get it done,” Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., told Fox News.

Trump has been highly critical of the 2016 trade deal, especially when he was a presidential candidate.

Read on for a look at what the deal is and what the president has said about it.

What is the TPP?

The trade deal was a massive free-trade agreement pushed by the Obama administration. The deal included the U.S. and 11 other countries along the Pacific Ocean, including: Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam.

At the time, President Barack Obama said the deal “puts American workers first.”

“Right now, the rules of global trade too often undermine our values and put our workers and businesses at a disadvantage,” he said in a statement. “TPP allows America – and not countries like China – to write the rules of the road in the 21st century, which is especially important in a region as dynamic as the Asia-Pacific."

Signed in February 2016, the deal was supposed to provoke investment among the 12 regions, which together make up about 40 percent of the global economy, the BBC reported at the time.

However, the countries involved needed to ratify the agreement in order for it to actually go into effect. Trump’s presidency, which began less than a year later, complicated that.

Trump withdrew the U.S. from the trade deal through an executive order in January 2017. Last month, the remaining 11 countries signed a deal without the U.S.

What were the criticisms against it?

Opponents of the deal, including labor unions, argued it would be a threat to manufacturing jobs and encourage exports of jobs to lower-wage countries overseas.

If TPP would be enacted, the U.S. would lose 448,000 jobs, according to a study from Tufts University’s Global and Environment Institute. In comparison, the study found a total job loss of 771,000 across all 12 nations involved in the deal combined.

Hillary Clinton, the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, broke with the Obama administration in opposing the deal. She expressed concern that it would benefit drug countries and wouldn’t combat currency manipulation, Time magazine reported.

What has Trump said about it?

Trump has been critical of TPP, not holding back.

“The Trans-Pacific Partnership is another disaster done and pushed by special interests who want to rape our country, just a continuing rape of our country,” Trump, then a presidential candidate, said in 2016. “That’s what it is, too. It’s a harsh word: It’s a rape of our country.”

Trump also railed against the deal – and Republicans who supported it – on social media.

Upon withdrawing the U.S. from the deal in 2017, Trump said his move was a “great thing for the American worker.”

But in January 2018, Trump floated the possibility of re-negotiating terms and re-entering the TPP, noting that he would consider signing back on only if he could make a “substantially better deal.”

"As I have said, the United States is prepared to negotiate mutually beneficial, bilateral trade agreements with all countries. This will include the countries in TPP, which are very important," Trump said at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. "We would consider negotiating with the rest, either individually, or perhaps as a group, if it is in the interests of all."

Fox News’ Barnini Chakraborty and Brooke Singman contributed to this report.The U.S. Justice Department sued California over its alleged interference with federal immigration policies – and it’s gotten some support from the state’s own municipalities.

Multiple local city or county councils have voted to join the Trump administration’s lawsuit or fight the state's policies in some way.

California’s so-called sanctuary laws limit police cooperation with federal immigration authorities – a move passed by the nation’s largest state to resist increased efforts to deport people living in the country illegally and to stop President Trump’s plan to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.

The sanctuary policy, pushed by Gov. Jerry Brown and the state’s Democratic-controlled legislature, has received some backlash at the local level.

Read on for a look at some of the cities and counties that have joined the Trump administration’s efforts to deem California’s law unconstitutional.

Los Alamitos

The Los Alamitos City Council voted 4-1 in March to opt out of California’s sanctuary law.

The adopted ordinance said the state laws “may be in direct conflict with federal laws and the Constitution.” It said it “finds that it is impossible to honor our oath to support and defend the Constitution of the United States” if it did not opt out of the policy.

Mayor Troy Edgar, a Republican, told Fox News the policy is a “huge overreach.”

Los Alamitos is able to opt out of the law because it is a charter city.

Hesperia

With a 3-1 vote, the Hesperia city council voted in March to join an amicus brief with the Trump administration’s lawsuit against California, the Desert Dispatch reported.

“We are not anti-immigrant — there is no one on this Council that’s anti-immigrant,” Councilman Paul Russ said, according to the newspaper. “But for immigrants, we’d like to see it done legally. I can also say without a doubt that we are anti-criminal. It’s not about the immigrants, it’s about the criminals in the community.”

Orange County

With a unanimous vote of 3-0, the Orange County Board of Supervisors voted in March to join the Justice Department’s lawsuit against California.

“This legislation prevents law enforcement from removing criminals from our community and is a threat to public safety,” Supervisor Shawn Nelson said.

The county previously made efforts to further comply with federal immigration authorities by publishing the release dates of inmates online.

Mission Viejo

In March, the Mission Viejo City Council voted to support the Los Alamitos City Council’s decision to opt out of the state’s sanctuary policies and join an amicus brief in support of the federal government’s lawsuit against the state.

Of the sanctuary laws, the city council said it “believes this legislation is a threat to both local control of businesses in the state and the individual liberty and public safety because it prevents law enforcement from performing their duties as necessitated by local circumstances.”

Huntington Beach

Huntington Beach City Council voted 6-1 in April to file its own lawsuit against the state of California over its sanctuary laws, calling the policies a “constitutional overreach.”

Mayor Mike Posey said his could become the first city to sue the state itself.

Escondido

After a heated meeting, the Escondido City Council voted 4-1 in April to support the Justice Department’s lawsuit with a legal brief.

“This is the right thing to do. I was elected mayor to keep the Constitution, uphold the Constitution and keep our community safe," Escondido mayor Sam Abed told Fox News. “I am committed to do that and that is what the council did today.”

The county Board of Supervisors will vote on a similar brief later in April, according to KSWB-TV.

Fountain Valley

After an assist from U.S. Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., the Fountain Valley City Council voted 3-1, with one abstention, to file an amicus brief in support of the Trump administration’s challenge to California’s law, the Orange County Register reported.

The council voted to support a legal brief after Rohrabacher offered to raise or provide the funds to do so.

Aliso Viejo

The Aliso Viejo City Council voted 4-1 on April 4 to join a lawsuit against the state of California over its sanctuary laws, KCBS-TV reported.

“We had a robust discussion and I’m proud of my colleagues for their stamina and attention through 6.5 hours of testimony,” Aliso Viejo Mayor Dave Harrington said in a statement. “We did the right thing.”

Orange

After a heated meeting, the Orange City Council voted in April not to comply with the state’s sanctuary laws, KCBS-TV reported.

Newport Beach

In a unanimous vote, the Newport Beach City Council decided to join the Trump administration’s lawsuit.

The vote, held in a closed session, allows the city to support the lawsuit, “including, but not limited to an amicus brief,” said Deputy City Manager Tara Finnigan, KCBS-TV reported.

Councilman Scott Peotter told Fox News the vote wasn’t about immigration but “illegal alien criminals.”

Westminster

In April, the Westminster City Council voted 3-1 to join the Trump administration’s lawsuit against the state, KABC-TV reported.

Fox News’ Paulina Dedaj and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein -- in President Donald Trump's crosshairs -- was summoned to the White House for a meeting with the president on Thursday, amid recent calls from some of Trump’s supporters for his ouster over his role in the expanding Russia investigation.

Rosenstein, who is Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ deputy and who was appointed by Trump, was spotted leaving the West Wing on Thursday afternoon, though a White House official played down the meeting's significance.

“Rod Rosenstein met with the president at the White House regarding routine department business,” the official said.

The meeting, though, seemed to have been arranged quickly. Rosenstein had been scheduled to introduce Sessions during an afternoon event at the Justice Department. But the emcee of that event announced that Rosenstein had been “called away on another matter.”

Justice Department officials said Rosenstein was at the White House for about an hour. He was accompanied by FBI officials and discussed document production to Congress, they said. Rosenstein also met with White House Counsel Don McGahn.

The meeting comes at a sensitive time for Rosenstein. Trump, outraged over the FBI’s raid of personal lawyer Michael Cohen’s office this week, has been publicly venting his frustration with Rosenstein, Sessions and Special Counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election.

“Mueller is most conflicted of all (except Rosenstein who signed FISA & Comey letter),” the president tweeted Wednesday.

TRUMP LASHES OUT AT MUELLER, ROSENSTEIN

Trump’s attack on Rosenstein is in reference to how the deputy attorney general signed a FISA surveillance warrant for former Trump campaign adviser Carter Page.

The president has repeatedly decried the DOJ and FBI’s efforts to obtain that surveillance warrant.

Trump has long been public about his frustration with how Sessions recused himself from the Russia investigation, setting in motion the series of events that led Rosenstein to appoint Mueller as special counsel.

"The attorney general made a terrible mistake when he did this and when he recused himself or he certainly should have let us know if he was going to recuse himself and we would have put a different attorney general in,” Trump said Monday after news of the Cohen raid broke. “So he made what I consider to be a very terrible mistake for the country.”

Some Trump supporters have been urging him to get rid of Rosenstein.

"Rod Rosenstein is so incompetent, compromised and conflicted that he can no longer serve as the deputy attorney general," former federal prosecutor Joseph diGenova told Fox News’ “Hannity” on Wednesday.

But despite this pressure, Trump on Thursday tweeted that he agrees with his legal team in cooperating with Mueller’s probe.

“I have agreed with the historically cooperative, disciplined approach that we have engaged in with Robert Mueller (Unlike the Clintons!),” the president tweeted Thursday.

Other supporters – including former adviser Stephen Bannon – have publicly encouraged Trump to stop cooperating with Mueller’s requests.

“The president wasn’t fully briefed by his lawyers on the implications” of not invoking executive privilege, Bannon told The Washington Post. “It was a strategic mistake to turn over everything without due process, and executive privilege should be exerted immediately and retroactively.”

Earlier Thursday, Trump denied seeking to shut down Mueller’s Russia probe, saying he would have fired the special counsel months ago if he'd wanted him gone.

“If I wanted to fire Robert Mueller in December, as reported by the Failing New York Times, I would have fired him,” the president tweeted. “Just more Fake News from a biased newspaper!”

Fox News’ Jake Gibson, Jennifer Bowman and Serafin Gomez contributed to this report.A federal jury convicted a former Texas congressman of fraud and conspiracy on Thursday for misusing charitable donations to pay for personal and political expenses.

Steve Stockman, a Republican, was accused of conspiring with two staffers to bilk conservative foundations out of at least $775,000 that was meant for charitable purposes and voter education. A campaign worker and an aide have pleaded guilty to various charges.

Stockman, 61, showed no emotion as the verdict was read in a Houston courtroom: Jurors found him guilty of 23 of the 24 counts he faced, including mail and wire fraud, conspiracy and money laundering. He was found not guilty on one count of wire fraud.

The judge deemed the former congressman a flight risk and ordered him into federal custody. Stockman could face decades in prison when sentenced in August.

An FBI affidavit alleged that shortly after beginning his second term in the U.S. House in 2013, Stockman solicited $350,000 in charitable donations from an unidentified wealthy businessman on behalf of Life Without Limits. The Nevada-based nonprofit had been set up to help people through traumatic events.

The donation was solicited for the purpose of renovating a house in Washington called the Freedom House. But the check was deposited at a bank branch in Webster, Texas, into an account set up by Stockman doing business as Life Without Limits, according to the affidavit.

Financial records show that Stockman made no significant expenditures toward the purchase, renovation or operation of Freedom House, which never opened. According to the affidavit, Stockman secretly diverted the money to pay for a variety of personal expenses and to funnel contributions to his campaign under the guise that they were from other people.

Stockman's attorney, Sean Buckley, has said Stockman committed no crime in using the money as he did. Following his arrest in March 2017, Stockman said a "deep state" shadow government was targeting him.

His three-week trial included testimony from a conservative operative who said Stockman also hired people to spy on three Republican state lawmakers. Benjamin Wetmore told jurors that shortly after Stockman took office in 2013, he became concerned that one of the lawmakers, Rep. James White of Woodville, was considering a primary challenge to Stockman.

Stockman said in a text to Wetmore that White, who is black, worried him.

"Republicans love black conservatives," Stockman wrote.

Wetmore said he was hired by Stockman to oversee the surveillance. He told the court that three months of trailing White yielded nothing incriminating.

Stockman served a term in the U.S. House from 1995 until 1997, and then another from 2013 until 2015, representing an area east of Houston. He ran for the U.S. Senate in 2014 but lost in the Republican primary to incumbent John Cornyn, who went on to win re-election.House Republicans are pushing for the passage of a balanced budget amendment Thursday, following a damning Congressional Budget Office report that said the tax reform law and the omnibus package would push the deficit to just under $1 trillion in 2019.

A balanced budget amendment requires the government to spend no more than it takes in each year—and Republicans have pushed to consider the amendment since the 1980s.

The last time the House of Representatives voted on a constitutional balanced budget amendment was in 2011. And before that, 1995. Congress has never been able to fully pass the amendment, failing to garner support from both the House and the Senate each time it’s been taken to the floor—in 1982, 1986, 1995, 2011—and it doesn’t appear this time will be much different.

The U.S. Constitution says that the House needs two-thirds vote to adopt the amendment and move it along to the Senate. But in order to actually amend the Constitution, Congress needs an unlikely two-thirds vote in favor in the House, two-thirds votes in favor in the Senate, and for legislatures in 38 states to approve the measure.

This time around, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., who will retire from Congress and not seek re-election at the end of his term, has proposed the joint resolution to be considered Thursday.

“A balanced budget amendment has been one of the highest priorities of my tenure in Congress. A constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget would finally bring discipline to federal spending and would benefit generations to come,” Goodlatte said in a statement, praising House leadership for scheduling a vote on the amendment. “I challenge my colleagues in the House and Senate to do what is morally right and responsible by passing this amendment and sending it on to the states for ratification.”

Goodlatte’s resolution requires that Congress not spend more than it receives in revenue, and requires a true majority—two-thirds vote—in both the House and Senate to pass tax increases, along with a three-fifths supermajority to raise the debt limit. Goodlatte’s resolution is identical to the balanced budget amendment considered in 2011.

Goodlatte’s resolution could pass the House on Thursday evening, but the chances of the resolution passing the Senate are slim. The Senate would need at least nine Democrats to vote across party lines to approve the measure.

“I think that’s something we ought to consider,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said on Capitol Hill this week, when asked about a balanced budget amendment. “Most of my members think a balanced budget amendment would bring the kind of discipline that has been missing under administrations of both parties.”

Democrats, though, have blasted Republicans time and time again for the proposal of the amendment—especially following the passage of the Republican tax reform plan, and of the $1.3 trillion omnibus spending bill passed last month. Trump signed the measure into law, but slammed the legislation for such a hefty price tag.

Democrats also say the passage of the amendment would result in deep entitlement cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security.

House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., attacked the balanced budget proposal this week, by using the words of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

“I’m reminded in the course of the tax bill, the budget, and now the so-called Balanced Budget amendment of Reverend King’s words,” Pelosi said at her press conference on Capitol Hill. “’God never intended for any group of people to live in superfluous, inordinate wealth while others live in abject, deadening poverty.”

Even some Republicans disagreed with bringing the resolution to a vote.

"What a joke. What a joke. It is the biggest joke in the world," Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., told The Washington Post. "It's a way for people to hide behind making tough decisions. I'm for a balanced-budget amendment, but the way it's drafted, it's just to give people cover. We've got the House, the Senate and the presidency. If we wanted to figure out a way to balance the budget we could do it."

Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, said that the bill was a "joke."

"It's all pretend, Never gonna become law, never gonna happen," Jordan said on the House floor. "Everybody knows this is all pretend."

And Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., said no one "will take this vote seriously."

Pelosi's office sent a statement ahead of the vote, again, blasting the resolution.

“House GOP’s balanced budget amendment is not about budgeting or balance. It’s about Republicans pushing their cruel agenda to further enrich the special interests on the backs of working families,” Pelosi’s office said in a statement. “Democrats believe in real fiscal responsibility and continue to fight for America’s seniors and our veterans, to create more good-paying jobs, and to reduce deficits in a responsible and sustainable manner.”



The CBO report earlier this week forecast that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would reduce federal revenues by $1 trillion, but would add another $500 billion to the debt. In 2018, tax cuts and spending hikes would add up to $242 billion to the federal budget.**Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.**



On the roster: How lucky will McCaskill be? - Dems gleeful over Ryan retirement - Switcheroo: Trump said to reconsider Asia trade pact - Cohen rumor mill still churning - Or, as Dana would say, ruh-coon



HOW LUCKY WILL MCCASKILL BE?

Did you read about the Missouri governor’s sex scandal? Whooooooo boy…

This still aspires to be at least a PG-13 political note, but it is a doozy. We’ll let you read it on your own and will not judge you if you do. But suffice it to say that what started out as bizarre and shocking is now lurid and unsettling.

Governor Eric Greitens, as you may already know, was something of an arch type for the kinds of candidates conservative Republicans were hoping to recruit: Military service, business success, fit and unflinchingly conservative.

But, according to his accuser, at the very least a deeply weird person. At worst a criminal. But for right now it doesn’t really matter what happens to Greitens. What may matter, however is how his slow rolling train wreck of a governorship affects his attorney general, who happens to be running for Senate.

Josh Hawley is perhaps an even more perfect specimen of a conservative GOP dream candidate. He’s like Tom Cotton if the Arkansas senator didn’t always look disdainful of the stupidity all around him (not that one could blame him, but still…)

Hawley may tend toward the Paul Ryan school of asceticism both in policy and persona, but with a little help from President Trump he’s not only looking safe for the state’s Aug. 7 GOP primary, but also in very fine fettle to knock out Sen. Claire McCaskill.

McCaskill is mucho overrated, having attained mythical status among Democrats for having won a red state twice. To detract nothing from her very considerable political gifts and acumen, she has benefitted from forces beyond her control in both cases.

She rode the blue wave in 2006 against a hopeless Missouri GOP but Show Me State Republicans outdid themselves in 2012 by nominating a candidate who mused during a televised interview about the nature of “legitimate rape.”

Todd Akin was so bad at running for the Senate that he made Christine O’Donnell look like a smooth operator.



McCaskill is hoping that Greitens will do the trick for her again. And Hawley has only lately come to understand that it may be so.

We have no idea what Greitens will say today in a press conference, but his approach thus far has been Trump-style mortal combat both with his accuser and the Democratic prosecutor who has run up blackmail charges against the governor.

Now, if Greitens leaves today or this week the impact on the race will be marginal. But if he stays it might end up costing Republicans one of the four best pick-up options they have in the Senate this year.

Hawley waited too long to call for Greitens resignation. And while Republicans now have undertaken an effort to force Greitens from office the shoddy spectacle of the whole thing raises too many doubts about an already sketchy GOP brand in the state.

None of that is to say that Hawley can’t win with Greitens rotting in office, but the stench would be quite a lot to contend with.



THE RULEBOOK: THANKS GUYS!

“We may profit by [Great Britain’s] experience without paying the price which it cost them.” – John Jay, Federalist No. 5



TIME OUT: ‘ADHERE TO YOUR PURPOSE’

History: “The bloodiest four years in American history begin when Confederate shore batteries under General P.G.T. Beauregard open fire on Union-held Fort Sumter in South Carolina’s Charleston Bay [on April 12, 1861]. During the next 34 hours, 50 Confederate guns and mortars launched more than 4,000 rounds at the poorly supplied fort. On April 13, U.S. Major Robert Anderson surrendered the fort. Two days later, U.S. President Abraham Lincoln issued a proclamation calling for 75,000 volunteer soldiers to quell the Southern ‘insurrection.’ As early as 1858, the ongoing conflict between North and South over the issue of slavery had led Southern leadership to discuss a unified separation from the United States. By 1860, the majority of the slave states were publicly threatening secession if the Republicans, the anti-slavery party, won the presidency. Following Republican Abraham Lincoln’s victory over the divided Democratic Party in November 1860, South Carolina immediately initiated secession proceedings.”



Flag on the play? - Email us at HALFTIMEREPORT@FOXNEWS.COM with your tips, comments or questions.

SCOREBOARD

Trump job performance

Average approval: 41 percent

Average disapproval: 53.2 percent

Net Score: -12.2 points

Change from one week ago: down 0.2 points

[Average includes: Quinnipiac University: 41% approve - 52% disapprove; Gallup: 41% approve - 54% disapprove; IBD: 38% approve - 56% disapprove; CNN: 43% approve - 53% disapprove; Marist College: 42% approve - 51% disapprove.]

Control of House

Republican average: 41.4 percent

Democratic average: 47.2 percent

Advantage: Democrats plus 5.8 points

Change from one week ago: Democratic advantage down 0.6 points

[Average includes: Quinnipiac University: 46% Dems - 43% GOP; CNN: 50% Dems - 44% GOP; Marist College: 44% Dems - 39% GOP; Fox News: 46% Dems - 41% GOP; NBC News/WSJ: 50% Dems - 40% GOP.]



I’LL TELL YOU WHAT: BEEP, BEEP

This week Dana Perino and Chris Stirewalt discuss the impending retirement of House Speaker Paul Ryan, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg facing a vastly under prepared joint Senate committee and the surprising connection between Madeleine Albright and Condoleezza Rice. Plus, it's Dana's turn to ask Chris questions from the I'll Tell You What mailbag. LISTEN AND SUBSCRIBE HERE



DEMS GLEEFUL OVER RYAN RETIREMENT

Politico: “[Paul Ryan’s] shocking announcement comes in the middle of a critical midterm election cycle in which the House is on the line, something that only bolsters Democrats’ confidence. ‘It is the clearest sign that we’ve seen that the Democrats are going to win,’ said Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.). ‘I’ve been saying, ‘I don’t quite see the wave, but I’m starting to feel the mist.’ Now I’m starting to see the wave.’ … POLITICO caught Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) coming out of a meeting early Wednesday, and he hadn’t yet heard the news. Nadler, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, would become chairman if Democrats were to win back the House — and the point man for any impeachment proceedings against Trump next year. ‘I’ve been reading news stories for the last two days saying that he wasn’t [going to retire],’ Nadler said, expressing surprise at the news. ‘I think it’s a sign that he thinks it’s a good possibility we’ll take back the House.’”



Poll shows Menendez looking strong despite trial drama - Monmouth University: “Democrat Bob Menendez holds a sizable advantage over Republican Bob Hugin in the 2018 race for U.S. Senate according to an early Monmouth University Poll of all New Jersey registered voters. Menendez starts out the campaign with weak approval ratings in part due to fallout from his recent corruption trial. But these negatives are more than offset by the fact he has a ‘D’ next to his name. Hugin, on the other hand, is known to few New Jersey voters at this stage of the race. Among all registered voters in New Jersey, a majority of 53% say they would vote for the incumbent Menendez and 32% would choose former Celgene Executive Chairman Hugin if the election for senator was today. Menendez is backed by 92% of his fellow Democrats while Hugin is supported by 84% of his fellow Republicans. Independents split 41% for Menendez and 33% for Hugin.”



Trump will head to Texas to fundraise next month - WaPo: “President Trump is slated to headline a fundraiser to benefit Senate Republicans in Texas on May 14, according to an invitation obtained by The Washington Post, as attention in the party shifts more urgently toward preserving control of the upper chamber of Congress in the midterm elections. The president is scheduled to attend a luncheon in Houston for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which is the Senate GOP’s campaign arm, according to the invitation. Contribution levels range from $5,000 per person to $100,000 per couple, the invitation says. Representatives for the NRSC and the White House did not immediately comment. Details of the event were confirmed with The Post by two people with knowledge of it. They confirmed it on the condition of anonymity because it had not been announced publicly.”



Harris to be special guest for Stabenow event - Politico: “Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) will be the special guest at a Michigan fundraiser for Sen. Debbie Stabenow on Saturday, according to a copy of the invitation obtained by POLITICO. Harris' swing through Michigan will also include the state Democratic Party Legacy Dinner in Detroit Saturday evening, where she will also be the special guest. … It's the latest move Harris has made to help a Senate Democratic colleague up for reelection in 2018. Earlier in the week, she sent out a fundraising email to supporters for Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) after Florida Gov. Rick Scott announced his candidacy for Senate.”



SWITCHEROO: TRUMP SAID TO RECONSIDER ASIA TRADE PACT

WSJ: “A little over a year after withdrawing the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, President Donald Trump has asked his top economic advisers to study the possibility of re-entering the trade pact negotiations. Mr. Trump has deputized Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, to study the possibility of re-entering the TPP if the terms were favorable, the president told a group of lawmakers on Thursday. The president’s new openness toward the TPP, which he had said during his campaign was a deal 'pushed by special interests who want to rape our country,' comes as he is facing criticism from farmers for his escalating trade battle with China. After Mr. Trump took aim at China with new steel and aluminum tariffs, Beijing responded by announcing it would place penalties on a list of agricultural products that would affect swaths of the president’s political base.”

And he wants a re-do on the spending bill - Politico: “A regretful President Donald Trump wants to roll back spending in a massive omnibus bill he signed into law, but Republicans who helped craft the legislation are in open revolt. ‘My attitude is, your word is your bond,’ House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen said, in his first public comments on the Trump plan. Frelinghuysen (R-N.J.) is among more than a half-dozen appropriators who have voiced skepticism about the Trump administration’s proposal to cancel billions in spending. Nearly all said they feared that it could erode the GOP’s bargaining power in future budget talks. Their objections represented another low point in an often-tense relationship between the cost-cutting White House and GOP members of Congress who write spending bills. The skeptics included the newly appointed Senate Appropriations chief, Richard Shelby, who met with Trump on Wednesday.”

COHEN RUMOR MILL STILL CHURNING

AP: “Eight months before the company that owns the National Enquirer paid $150,000 to a former Playboy Playmate who claimed she’d had an affair with Donald Trump, the tabloid’s parent made a $30,000 payment to a less famous individual: a former doorman… The Associated Press confirmed the details of the Enquirer’s payment through a review of a confidential contract and interviews with dozens of current and former employees of the Enquirer and its parent company, American Media Inc. [Dino Sajudin] got $30,000 in exchange for signing over the rights, ‘in perpetuity,’ to a rumor he’d heard about Trump’s sex life… The contract subjected Sajudin to a $1 million penalty if he disclosed either the rumor or the terms of the deal to anyone. [Michael Cohen,] the longtime Trump attorney, acknowledged to the AP that he had discussed Sajudin’s story with the magazine when the tabloid was working on it. He said he was acting as a Trump spokesman when he did so and denied knowing anything beforehand about the Enquirer payment to the ex-doorman.”

The Judge’s Ruling: Oh brother, Cohen could mean big trouble for Trump - This week Fox News Senior Judicial Analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano explains why the FBI’s raid on Cohen’s office was lawful: “Though Cohen does not represent Trump in the [Special Counsel Robert Mueller] investigation, he does represent him in nearly all other legal matters, and his files contain a treasure-trove of confidential and financial materials from and about Trump. Judges are very reluctant to sign search warrants authorizing the seizure of legal files, with two exceptions. The first is the so-called crime/fraud exception. Under this rule, if the client is using his confidential communications with his lawyer to further an ongoing crime, fraud or tort, the communications are not privileged, and evidence of them may be seized. The other exception is the independent criminal activity of the lawyer. That appears to be the case here. It seems that Cohen … did not tell the bank from which he borrowed the funds the true purpose of the loan.” More here.



PLAY-BY-PLAY

Pompeo promises to ‘push back’ against Russian aggression - Fox News



Another National Security Adviser leaves White House - Axios



Calif. Gov. Jerry Brown agrees to send National Guard to border - LAT



Trump on action toward Syria: ‘Very soon or not so soon at all!’ - AP



Justice Department replies to Nunes - The Hill



AUDIBLE: IT ME

“…[Paul Ryan] comes in and people go, ‘What's that smell?! Yuck!’ And Paul was in his camo stuff and he had deer urine on him, and he said, ‘Well, that'd be me. I have deer urine on.’” – Kansas’ former Governor Sam Brownback sharing a memory about Ryan. Brownback served as a mentor to the soon to be former speaker.



FROM THE BLEACHERS

“Wonderful first section today! Keep it up. Regarding the disavowal of the Chamber of Commerce, you gave no reason for the act. As a fairly well read follower of the political circus, I don’t understand why…” – Don Kane, North Plains, Ore.



[Ed. note: The U.S. Chamber has from time to time been a boogie man for the populist right. And that’s not without reason since the Chamber, quite transparently, is the voice of Big Business. They fight labor unions tooth and nail, push for lighter regulation (except when it helps its most influential members), adds weight to confirmation efforts and give absolute boat loads of money to mostly Republican candidates. But they tend to fight Bannonite populism, particularly when it seeks tariffs on imported goods, immigration crackdowns and big spending on entitlement programs. So if you are in a competitive Republican primary, it may be more advantageous to say that you are against the Chamber even if that means you don’t get their money.]



“Chris: You are so ‘Right On’ with your April 11 commentary regarding the ineffectiveness of our Congress. Your remarks surely mirror the thoughts and emotions of many, many conservative Republicans. It is tragic that our nation has come to the point where our legislators often act without integrity, often take the easy way out and often operate with only self-interests in mind. I'd love to hear your opinion on what, specifically, could be done to move members of our House of Representatives and Senate to truly think, believe and act with honesty and so, more effectively and sincerely, represent the people they serve. Thank You! Thank You!” – Mick Angel, Waverly, Iowa



[Ed. note: You’re welcome! You’re welcome! But I do think, Mr. Angel that it is not just conservatives who think Congress is just awful. You’ve seen all of the polls that show Congress with an approval rating of something like that of jock itch. Those polls aren’t useful for purposes of analysis because they are counterbalanced by an incumbency rate in the high 90s. People hate Congress but like their congressman or congresswoman. But the number does reflect the degree to which people are absolutely fed up with a government that cannot govern, except for those times when it lurches into some fresh disaster. The members of the two parties disagree on a great deal. But there is little disagreement about the fact that our balance of powers is out of balance.]



Share your color commentary: Email us at

HALFTIMEREPORT@FOXNEWS.COM and please make sure to include your name and hometown.



OR, AS DANA WOULD SAY, RUH-COON

WNBC: “A report of a tiger running amok in the streets of Manhattan briefly caused a social media frenzy early Thursday, as reporters scrambled to find photos of the ferocious feline and warn civilians to stay out of the area. Turns out, it was a raccoon. The NYPD got a call about the rogue ‘tiger’ near 166th Street and St. Nicholas Avenue in Harlem around 8:30 a.m. News 4 crews were at the scene in about 15 minutes reporting no sighting of a tiger nor any police. Shortly thereafter, police confirmed there was indeed an animal sighting, but it was just a raccoon. Hey, they both have black markings on their bodies. Easily confused. Or not.”

Chris Stirewalt is the politics editor for Fox News. Brianna McClelland contributed to this report. Want FOX News Halftime Report in your inbox every day? Sign up here.During his secretary of state confirmation hearing, CIA Director Mike Pompeo refused to say whether he thinks same-sex relationships are a “perversion” when pressed multiple times and said he stood by his earlier views against gay marriage.

Referencing a past speech Pompeo gave, Sen. Cory Booker, D-N.J., asked the former Kansas congressman point blank, “Is being gay a perversion?”

“When I was a politician, I had a very clear view on whether it was appropriate for two same-sex persons to marry. I stand by that,” Pompeo, vying to be the nation’s top diplomat, responded during the Thursday hearing.

As a congressman, Pompeo opposed the U.S. Supreme Court ruling that legalized gay marriage in 2015.

Booker also asked if Pompeo believes it’s “appropriate” for same-sex couples to marry.

“Senator, I continue to hold that view,” Pompeo said.

Pompeo was also questioned about his beliefs on same-sex marriage in January 2017 during his Senate confirmation hearing to become the CIA director. Then, Sen. Kamala Harris, D-Calif., asked Pompeo if he would treat every CIA employee “in a way that is appropriate and equal” to which Pompeo agreed.

He assured Booker during his secretary of state confirmation hearing that his “respect for every individual, regardless of their sexual orientation, is the same.”

“You’re going to be representing this country and their values abroad in nations where gay individuals are under untold persecution, untold violence. Your views do matter,” Booker said.

Earlier, Booker pressed Pompeo on if he saw people who worshipped “other gods,” particularly Muslims, as “negative.” Pompeo pointed to his “exquisite” record of treating people with respect, despite their religious beliefs.

Pompeo also told Booker Muslims have a special “opportunity” with how they respond to terrorist attacks. He said some people are “better positioned” to respond to “certain types of violence.”

Trump nominated Pompeo to be secretary of state in March to replace Rex Tillerson.Paul Ryan is one of those rare politicians who really does want to spend more time with his family. But there's more to his decision to relinquish power than that.

His frustration in trying to work with President Trump, despite their clashing agendas, was in my view a significant factor in yesterday's announcement that he isn't running for reelection, essentially abdicating as House speaker.

Ryan never wanted the job, as he made clear to reporters. He was drafted by his colleagues. And with little prospect of being able to achieve more of his agenda, Ryan decided to declare victory after helping to pass the tax cuts and stop being a "weekend dad" back in Janesville, Wis.

The pundits raced to read a whole lot more into his decision.

Ryan was "signaling the peril that the Republican majority faces in the midterm elections," The New York Times says.

Ryan is "adding further uncertainty about whether embattled Republicans can maintain control of the House," says The Washington Post.

Now I'm sure the GOP's challenging prospects in the midterms crossed the congressman's mind, despite his demurral yesterday. But he’s not the typical power-hungry pol, so I don't think that's his main motivation. Nor do I believe Ryan's absence on the ballot will hurt other Republican candidates, except perhaps for the loss of his fundraising prowess.

CNBC's John Harwood goes a step further. "Ryan’s retirement from the House increases the chance that President Donald Trump will be impeached," he says.

Because "there's little doubt that a Democratic-controlled House would seek to impeach the president."

Wait, so Nancy Pelosi and company are lying when they say they’re not pursuing impeachment?

Harwood sees it as a runaway train. Still, a pretty sweeping conclusion based on one lawmaker giving up his seat.

It became awkward watching Ryan at his news conferences, deflecting reporters' questions about the latest Trump scandal or tweet and struggling to talk about policy.

What strikes me is how some Trump loyalists are trashing Ryan online, even calling him a RINO. That shows how much the party's center of gravity has shifted.

Ryan was long viewed as a dogged crusader for smaller government. When Mitt Romney picked him as his running mate, the right cheered at such a conservative choice.

But Ryan's devotion to entitlement reform was utterly at odds with Trump's vow to protect Medicare and Social Security. And the $1.3-trillion bill that Trump signed (after briefly threatening to veto it) was the epitome of the bloated, out-of-control federal spending that Ryan had vowed to stop.

Some commentators, stepping away from the horse race, are branding Ryan a failure:

"Who can blame him for not wanting to be the man standing between a volatile caucus, and a president whom he doesn't like, who doesn't respect him, and who doesn't care a whit for the kind of conservatism that has motivated Ryan throughout his long career in government?" The Atlantic asks.

"Faced with an out-of-control president of his own party, the speaker has decided he'd rather quit than deal with it"

And Politico points out that "Paul Ryan Deficit Hawk has never behaved like a deficit hawk. In his two decades in Washington, Ryan has consistently supported tax cuts and spending hikes that have boosted deficits, while consistently trashing Democrats for failing to cut deficits."

But National Review’s Jim Geraghty gives Ryan a respectful sendoff: "He was civil, well-informed, polite, and firm, the opposite of a table-pounding, demagogic extremist, and that probably just aggravated his critics on the left even more."

The larger question is whether anyone can run the fractious House GOP. Three years ago, John Boehner quit in frustration. Now Paul Ryan is quitting in frustration. The party's divide is so deep that speaker—or if they lose, minority leader—may be the ultimate thankless job.Audio clip: Listen to audio clip.

Speaker of the House, Paul Ryan announced he would not be seeking re-election next year. FOX's Jared Halpern discusses Ryan's 20 year career in politics and the effect his retirement may have on the GOP.

National Guard troops have started their work at the southern border. FOX's Eben Brown is at the McAllen, Texas border where he spoke to one nun that is doing what she can to help the migrants.

Also, a commentary by Brian Kilmeade, FOX & Friends co-host and host of The Brian Kilmeade Show.Audio clip: Listen to audio clip.

Could Have Fired Mueller? Should Have? The Justice Department has handed over all of the documents requested by the House intelligence committee after a congressman threatened to impeach FBI Director Christopher Wray and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein over the delay. Meanwhile President Trump tweeted that if he wanted to fire Robert Mueller, he could have done it months ago! Is the rift between the FBI and the President getting bigger by the day? Is it finally time for the President to take action? Todd gets reaction from former Secret Service Agent Dan Bongino and former Governor Mike Huckabee.Audio clip: Listen to audio clip.

The first hour of the Brian Kilmeade Radio Show on FOX News Talk 9am-Noon Eastern M-F.Audio clip: Listen to audio clip.

Admiral James Stavridis, former Supreme Allied Commander at NATO and Dean of The Fletcher School at Tufts University, spoke with Brian Kilmeade about whether he thinks President Trump will follow through on launching a military strike against Syria, what type of assets are needed to conduct a successful operation and why in the long term we need to work with Russia to solve the situation in Syria.

Listen here:University of Alabama football player J.K. Scott made national news when he was filmed Tuesday leading a prayer for President Trump on the White House lawn.

"The Lord laid on my heart to pray for him," the Crimson Tide football player said on the Todd Starnes Radio Show.

Scott, who is a follower of Jesus Christ, said he prayed that the Lord would give the president peace.

"I walked up to him and shook his hand and asked, 'Mr Trump, would you let me pray for you?' He looked at me and said, 'Yeah, Come on,'" Scott told Starnes.

And that's exactly what happened - immediately after a ceremony honoring the national championship football team.

"As soon as President Trump gave us permission, we all laid hands on him and we gathered around and we all started praying," he said.

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."Audio clip: Listen to audio clip.

The House Speaker calls it a career...

Dana Perino, former White House Press Secretary, co-host of Fox News Channel's "The Five" and host of "The Daily Briefing" and Chris Stirewalt Fox News Politics Editor and host of "Power Play", run through the daily goings on in the world of politics.

This week Dana and Chris discuss the impending retirement of House Speaker Paul Ryan, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg facing a vastly under prepared joint Senate committee and the surprising connection between Madeleine Albright and Condoleezza Rice.

Plus, it's Dana's turn to ask Chris questions from the I'll Tell You What mailbag.

LISTEN to "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What":

Follow Dana Perino on Twitter: @DanaPerino and Facebook

Plus pick up her books: "And The Good News Is..." and "Let Me Tell You About Jasper" now available in paperback.

Follow Chris Stirewalt on Twitter: @ChrisStirewalt and subscribe to his political news note: 'FOX News Halftime Report'

And pre-order his new book: "Every Man A King: A Short, Colorful History of American Populists"

Click HERE for more "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What"President Donald Trump was outraged after news broke that his personal lawyer's office was raided by the Feds.

There's been rumors President Trump is considering firing Robert Mueller or some some high ranking Department of Justice officials, but would that solve his Russia problem?

President Donald J. Trump 'has every right to be furious' about the FBI's Cohen raid, says Judge Andrew Napolitano. He joined The Tom Shillue Show to outline what Trump can and can't do in response.Washington was rocked when Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI) announced he would not seek reelection in 2018 for his House seat. His announcement led to immediate speculation over who would become the next Speaker if the Republicans maintain the House majority after the midterm elections.

Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH) told Todd Starnes "it's too early to be talking" about who could be a possible replacement, despite Rep. Jordan's name being mentioned as a candidate. Rep. Jordan did say that whoever the next Speaker is, they need to be consistent with the mandate of the 2016 election or "we're not going to be in the majority."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Rep. Jordan also explained why winning races in November is so crucial. "I think what's most important is we keep the majority so that the Speaker isn't Nancy Pelosi," Rep. Jordan said.

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."More Podcasts…

· The FOX News Rundown

Long form and in depth story telling of the major news item of the day.

· The Whip Around

In hurry? Start the day with this quick news podcast!

· Hourly Newscast

The news updated every hour!

· The Five

It’s the full primetime show. FREE!

· Perino & Stirewalt

Dana Perino & Chris Stirewalt dishing on politics news every week.

· The One w/ Greg Gutfeld

You know him. You love him. Greg Gutfeld.

· Livin’ the Bream

Inspirational stories, personal anecdotes and an insider’s perspective from Shannon Bream.

· HemmerTime

One on one with engaging personalities hosted by Bill Hemmer.For two consecutive days, Trump supporters Diamond & Silk were referenced by politicians during Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg's Capitol Hill hearings. The social media superstars' videos were reportedly flagged by Facebook as being "unsafe to the community," which led to questions about the political leanings of the company.

Diamond & Silk joined Todd Starnes to talk about how they felt Zuckerberg had turned Facebook "into a political playground for Democrats and he's censoring conservative voices." They also characterized many of Zuckerberg's answers about his website as "a bunch of bogus lies."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Diamond & Silk also said that as long as the GOP continues to run on President Trump's agenda "there is no reason why Republicans should be losing anything" in the midterm elections.

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."Dershowitz: Mueller 'Laundering Information to Another Prosecutorial Authority'

Whoopi Goldberg said that if President Trump fires Special Counsel Robert Mueller, the potential resulting riots "would be fun to watch."

Goldberg made the remark on "The View" on Wednesday as the co-hosts speculated what would happen if Trump terminated the special counsel, who is investigating possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.

Following an FBI raid on Trump's longtime personal attorney, Michael Cohen, there has been growing speculation that Trump could fire Mueller, Attorney General Jeff Sessions or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein.

Trump called the raid "disgraceful" and lambasted Mueller's investigation as "an attack on our country."

Attorney–client privilege is dead! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 10, 2018

A TOTAL WITCH HUNT!!! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 10, 2018

On "Your World," conservative blogger Allie Beth Stuckey said Goldberg's comment reflects how many on the left feel.

"They want this White House to be characterized by corruption and chaos. And I think they think that if he fires Mueller, that confirms all of their suspicions as well as, in their minds, precipitates impeachment, which they've been vying for" Stuckey said.

Democratic strategist Christy Setzer said there would be outrage if Trump fires Mueller because people want to see the conclusion of the investigation.

She pointed out that there have already been 19 indictments, five guilty pleas and one person sentenced to jail, and investigation seems to be getting closer and closer to Trump himself.

"The question is sort of what is going on, when are we finally going to get to whether or not Donald Trump himself has committed a crime?"

Watch the segment from "The View" below.

Gohmert: 'Corrupt' Mueller Deserves to Be Fired, But Trump Can't Act Due to Politics

Turley: Firing Mueller or Rosenstein 'Wouldn't Necessarily Stop' Investigation

Ingraham: Trump Should 'Follow Political Instincts' and Ignore the 'Swamp'WATCH: Dem Congresswoman Dozes Off During Nancy Pelosi's 8-Hour DACA Speech

Ingraham: Ryan's Exit a 'Clear Sign' That GOP Establishment Is Yielding to Trump's Vision

Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton said it's "shameful" that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein only turned over the FBI memo that instigated the bureau's Russia investigation after being threatened with legal action.

Rosenstein allowed House Intelligence Committee chairman Rep. Devin Nunes, R-Calif., and Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., to view the FBI memo after Nunes threatened him and FBI Director Christopher Wray with legal action -- including contempt proceedings and impeachment.

A government source told Fox News that Nunes, Gowdy and committee Republican staff were able to view the two-page memo with relatively few redactions.

"It shows you just how obstructionist [the] FBI and Justice Department have been with a Republican Congress," Fitton said on "Outnumbered Overtime" on Thursday. "This is a deep state obstruction, and it's shameful that this Justice Department and this FBI only turned over this document after being threatened with contempt and the officials at issue being threatened with impeachment."

He argued this Justice Department and FBI have a "demonstrated history" of withholding records related to the targeting of President Trump and his associates because they expose "misconduct" by DOJ and FBI officials.

"Why was it the Justice Department and FBI took the extraordinary step to investigate the Trump campaign given the information they had that Russia was targeting the Trump campaign or Donald Trump with malicious lies, specifically through the dossier?" Fitton asked.

He suggested that officials may have opened the investigation for partisan reasons, as opposed to law enforcement or counterintelligence reasons.

Pelosi Tells Story of Grandson Wishing He Had 'Brown Skin and Brown Eyes'

'How Much Are You Worth, Nancy?': Pelosi Heckled at Town Hall While Slamming Trump Tax Law

Trish Regan Calls Out Pelosi for 'Crumbs' Remark: 'What World Do You Live On?'Dershowitz: Trump Won't Repeat Obama's 'Tragic Mistake' With Syria 'Red Line'

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said Thursday that President Trump has “all the authority he needs as commander-in-chief” to take military action against Syria without congressional support.

The president has shown mixed intentions regarding potential action following a chemical attack in Syria.

Last Saturday's attack killed dozens in a town near Damascus. The Assad regime has denied responsibility, but many believe it is behind the deadly strike.

Trump on Wednesday tweeted that Russia should “get ready” for a missile launch to Syria, but said Thursday that he never actually specified when an attack could take place.

He said any retaliation could happen “very soon or not so soon at all.”

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Never said when an attack on Syria would take place. Could be very soon or not so soon at all! In any event, the United States, under my Administration, has done a great job of ridding the region of ISIS. Where is our “Thank you America?” — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2018

Graham also referenced the War Powers Act, which ensures that “the collective judgement of both the Congress and the President will apply to the introduction of the United States Armed Forces into hostilities.”

“I don’t think it’s worth the paper it’s written on,” he said.

Haley on Syria Chemical Attack: 'Only a Monster Does This'

Rep. McCaul: Russia and Iran Complicit in Syria Chemical Attack

Judge Jeanine: It's Time for Republicans to Start Wielding Power'It's Disputed by Our Founding Fathers': Paul Challenges Pompeo on Syria, Military Deployments

Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) grilled Secretary of State nominee Mike Pompeo during his Senate confirmation hearing Thursday about Pompeo's stated opposition to gay marriage.

Booker was referring to a speech Pompeo made in 2015 while he was a Kansas congressman, which cited a prayer delivered by the Rev. Joe Wright.

"America had worshiped other Gods and called it multiculturalism. We’d endorsed perversion and called it an alternative lifestyle,” Pompeo said.

"Those are your words," Booker said to Pompeo. "Is being gay a perversion?"

Pompeo replied by stating he had a "clear view" on whether gay marriage was "appropriate" while he was a politician in Kansas, and that he stands by those views today.

Booker continued to press Pompeo, saying he knows same-sex couples within the State Department who were married under Pompeo's leadership.

"You do not believe that should be allowed?" Booker said.

Pompeo answered by saying he treats gay couples who work at the CIA with "the exact same set of rights" as anyone else.

.@CoryBooker: "You do not believe it's appropriate for two gay people to marry?" Mike Pompeo: "Senator, I continue to hold that view." pic.twitter.com/zlGgj3JfpW — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 12, 2018

He concluded by saying, "My respect for every individual -- regardless of their sexual orientation -- is the same."

Booker finished by saying to Pompeo that he doesn't think his beliefs reflect the nation's values.

Watch the exchange between the New Jersey senator and outgoing CIA director above.

'Foreign Policy by Viral Video': Tucker Rips 'Talk Show Generals' Calling for War in Syria

Rand Paul: If There Was No Collusion, Mueller Should End the Investigation

Tucker Takes on Critics Over Skepticism of Syria Strikes: They Want You to 'Shut Up and Obey'Rand Paul: If There Was No Collusion, Mueller Should End the Investigation

'Foreign Policy by Viral Video': Tucker Rips 'Talk Show Generals' Calling for War in Syria

Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) challenged Secretary of State nominee Mike Pompeo Thursday on whether President Trump can authorize strikes on Syria without approval from Congress.

Pompeo, the current CIA director and a former congressman, said at his Senate confirmation hearing that he believes the president has the authority to sign off on another attack on Bashar al-Assad's forces.

He said that power of the president has not been disputed by Democrats or Republicans for an "extended" period of time.

Paul disputed that, arguing the Constitution gives that power to Congress, not the executive branch.

"Actually it's disputed mostly by our founding fathers," he countered, adding he objects to the idea that a president can "go to war when he wants, where he wants."

Paul said when Pompeo was in Congress, he said then-President Obama needed congressional approval to strike Libya. He said millions of Americans voted for President Trump because he was against more U.S. military involvement around the world.

"We say we want to leave but when? We've been [in Afghanistan] 18 years. I think we won the battle. I think we should declare victory and come home. We literally did win. There is nobody left alive who plotted to attack us on 9/11. ... We're now sending people to war who weren't even born when 9/11 was," he said.

Paul argued the U.S. government now wants to keep pursuing radical Islamists around the world based on the authorization from Congress after 9/11.

He said he believes Trump has "good instincts" against these deployments, but his advisers are influencing him with the opposite view.

Trump has hinted in recent days that an attack is coming in response to a gas attack on Syrian civilians.

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Watch the exchange above.

Tucker Takes on Critics Over Skepticism of Syria Strikes: They Want You to 'Shut Up and Obey'

Gingrich: Giving Mueller This Much Power 'Is a Threat to Every American'

'You Accused Me of Defending a Bloodsoaked Regime': Tucker Blasts Journalist Over Syria AttackDershowitz: Mueller 'Laundering Information to Another Prosecutorial Authority'

Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Thursday that firing Special Counsel Robert Mueller would be a "terrible option" for President Trump that would have "bad consequences."

There has been speculation that Trump could fire Mueller, Attorney General Jeff Sessions or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein following the FBI raid on the president's longtime personal attorney, Michael Cohen.

Cohen's attorney, Stephen Ryan, said the raids of his client's offices, home and hotel room were conducted by the U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan and were based at least partly on a referral from Mueller.

Gingrich, a Fox News contributor, urged people not to focus on any potential ousters but instead look at the precedence Mueller has gained.

"You could be in your bedroom at three o'clock in the morning and wake up to have armed FBI agents kicking in the door," he added, referring to the raid of former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort's home last July.

Why do people defend three am fbi raid on non-violent couple in their pajamas? How would YOU feel if you woke up to armed men in bedroom? — Newt Gingrich (@newtgingrich) April 12, 2018

Trump on Thursday tweeted that if he wanted to terminate Mueller, he could have done so months ago.

If I wanted to fire Robert Mueller in December, as reported by the Failing New York Times, I would have fired him. Just more Fake News from a biased newspaper! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2018

"It is a threat to every American to have this kind of power in a prosecutor," Gingrich said of Mueller.

Gohmert: 'Corrupt' Mueller Deserves to Be Fired, But Trump Can't Act Due to Politics

Turley: Firing Mueller or Rosenstein 'Wouldn't Necessarily Stop' Investigation

Ingraham: Trump Should 'Follow Political Instincts' and Ignore the 'Swamp'Former Sec'y of State Albright Rips Trump: 'He Acts Like He's Above the Law'

Attorney Alan Dershowitz said Thursday that the FBI's raids on the office, home and hotel room of President Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen, was not justified and should only have been done as a "last resort."

Fox News confirmed Wednesday that the raids were conducted in order to obtain information on the infamous 2005 “Access Hollywood” tape, which featured lewd comments by Trump about women.

The search Monday was reportedly aimed at Cohen's attempts to suppress harmful material about Trump ahead of the election, including the $130,000 hush payment to porn star Stormy Daniels.

Speaking on "America's Newsroom," Dershowitz, a Harvard Law professor emeritus said the raids were drastic given the level of crime suspected.

"The raid itself was, from everything I can see, unjustified. What they were looking for were not the most serious crimes - not terrorism, not drug lords, not organized crime - but maybe some kind of technical election violations or tax violations," he said, questioning whether seizing documents potentially protected by attorney-client privilege was warranted.

.@AlanDersh: "Shame on the @ACLU. I used to be on its national board when it was actually a civil liberties organization, not a political Get-Trump organization." pic.twitter.com/T6ug5flPyB — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 12, 2018

Dershowitz said Trump and Cohen now face the possibility that some of the information seized in the raids could leak out. Bill Hemmer asked whether a potential campaign finance violation would be enough to justify the raids.

"That's not good enough," said Dershowitz, arguing Mueller could have subpoenaed bank and tax records and other communications.

"You use a raid on a lawyer's office as a last resort," he added, stating that a judge or a monitor of some kind should have been present to decide which information could be seized.

Watch the full analysis above and see Dershowitz explain the "subterfuge" used by Mueller to carry out the raid.

DiGenova: Sessions Must Fire 'Incompetent, Compromised & Conflicted' Rod Rosenstein

Gohmert: 'Corrupt' Mueller Deserves to Be Fired, But Trump Can't Act Due to Politics

Guilfoyle: Feds 'Better Have Really Compelling Probable Cause' for Cohen RaidDiGenova: Sessions Must Fire 'Incompetent, Compromised & Conflicted' Rod Rosenstein

Sean Hannity said "disgraced" former FBI Director James Comey is getting ready to "cash in on his very public hatred for President Donald Trump."

Comey's first TV interview - on his book promotion tour - will be with ABC's George Stephanopoulos, who Hannity called a "Clinton sycophant turned so-called journalist."

"It's the moment liberals and the Trump-hating press have been so anxiously waiting for," said Hannity.

"Was President Trump obstructing justice?” Former FBI Director James @Comey sits down with @ABC's @GStephanopoulos for an exclusive interview airing Sunday night at 10/9c on ABC. https://t.co/IE4XwxvIih #Comey pic.twitter.com/jNW3RUSVTi — ABC News (@ABC) April 12, 2018

In the sitdown, Comey compares Trump to a mob boss and is asked whether the president obstructed justice and if he should be impeached.

Hannity said Comey should "know better" than to make such a comparison, since he was involved in prosecuting actual mob bosses.

"Do you really need the extra money?" Hannity asked of Comey.

He went on to lay out so-called "crime families" connected to the Clintons, Comey himself and Special Counsel Robert Mueller.

Hannity called out Mueller's "merry band of Democratic donors," including top prosecutor Andrew Weissman.

He said Weissman has a history of aggressive tactics and two of his high-profile cases were overturned on appeal.

"Would you want that guy going after you, with that track record?" he asked.

Watch the explosive monologue above and see Joe DiGenova's reaction.

Dershowitz: Mueller 'Laundering Information to Another Prosecutorial Authority'

Media Pushes Narrative That Syria Action Would Be 'Wag the Dog' Strategy by TrumpMI GOP Candidate: Facebook Rejected Campaign Announcement as 'Shocking and Disrespectful'

'Stay Cool': Kudlow Tells Farmers to Be Optimistic on Potential Tariffs

Former federal prosecutor Joe diGenova ripped special counsel Robert Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein in the wake of the raid on Trump lawyer Michael Cohen's properties.

DiGenova, who served as U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, said the raid on Cohen was an "unconstitutional and unprofessional search."

He said Cohen was cooperating with the special counsel and was not deserving of the severe treatment on behalf of the Southern District of New York.

DiGenova also agreed with some critics who said Rosenstein must be relieved of duty due to conflicts of interest and an alleged bias against Trump.

"Rod Rosenstein is so incompetent, compromised and conflicted that he can no longer serve as the deputy attorney general," diGenova said of the former Maryland federal prosecutor.

DiGenova said Attorney General Jeff Sessions has the responsibility to fire Rosenstein, not Trump.

"It's so appalling in every sense," he said of the situation.

'You Accused Me of Defending a Bloodsoaked Regime': Tucker Blasts Journalist Over Syria Attack

Guilfoyle: Feds 'Better Have Really Compelling Probable Cause' for Cohen RaidTucker: Feinstein, Schiff Claim Supporting Release of FISA Memo Aligns You With Russia

Ben Shapiro commented on the push by Penn State students to defund conservative organizations on college campuses, branding them as "hate groups."

"Everything has been deemed 'hate speech' on campus," the conservative commentator and radio host said on "The Ingraham Angle."

Shapiro said views in favor of a border wall or deporting some illegal immigrants would likely be viewed by these student groups as "hate speech."

Shapiro noted that Penn State was a university he visited in the past, and that a riot nearly broke out because he was speaking.

"I'm sure that some of the people who are protesting the conservatives on campus ... were some of the same people who, a couple of years ago, nearly tried to break through the doors where I was speaking," he said.

Shapiro has been met with a number of left-wing student protests during his college lecture tour.

He told Laura Ingraham that administrators at some campuses limit the amount of people who can attend conservative lectures in order to stop riots.

"They actually end up restricting free speech even when they're attempting to protect it, in some cases," Shapiro said.

He pointed to conservative commentators like Jordan Peterson, Jason Riley, Heather McDonald and Charles Murray all seeing attempts to stop them from speaking.

Ben Shapiro: Hundreds of People Were Turned Away From Attending UConn Speech

Sanders Blasts Reporter: 'You're Accusing the President of Being Complicit in a School Shooting'

Elder: Dems Want Illegal Immigrants Because They Need 'Jedi Mind Trick' to Convince Citizens to Vote for ThemAunt of Cop Killed by Illegal Immigrant Applauds Death Sentence: 'He's a Monster'

The Newport Beach city council voted unanimously earlier this week to challenge California's sanctuary law, joining a dozen other cities that are not interested in complying with the sanctuary policies.

It's the third city in the past two days to take such action, joining about a dozen others in recent weeks.

"It's a tool in the toolbox for our police to help keep criminals off the street," Newport Beach Councilman Scott Peotter said of the vote against the law.

He said the issue is not about opposition to immigrants - as critics allege - but about keeping "illegal alien criminals" from re-entering the community.

The sanctuary law is heavily supported by Gov. Jerry Brown (D) and State Attorney General Xavier Becerra (D).

Peotter also said that Brown is sending National Guard troops to the border for reasons other than to prevent illegal immigration.

"You listen to Jerry Brown, and he's sending [troops] there for other reasons. Not for immigration purposes," he said. "In either event, the troops end up being at the border."

"So it's a matter of, whose spin do you want to listen to?" he added, arguing that the state is controlled by two-thirds Democrats.

Peotter said the state did not listen to the city's concerns about the law before it passed and now the city is joining the lawsuit against the state by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.

"We want to be a law and order city and a law and order state. We want to comply with federal law and state law. They put us into a situation where we have to choose and we don't like it," he added.

Watch the interview from "Fox & Friends" above, and read more about other California cities opting out of the sanctuary law.

'We Must Follow the Law': CA County Publishes Release Times of Inmates, Illegal Immigrants

'It's Unconstitutional': More CA Cities Looking to Opt Out of Sanctuary Law

California AG: Border Wall Is 'Medieval Technology,' Trump Has No Authority to Build ItGOP Kaine Opponent Rips VA Gov for Vetoing Bill Banning Sanctuary Cities

Former Sec'y of State Albright Rips Trump: 'He Acts Like He's Above the Law'

Tucker Carlson debated a magazine editor who claimed the host "willfully misled his audience and advanced Russian geopolitical narratives" by cautioning against anti-Assad actions in Syria following the chemical attack on civilians there.

Carlson reiterated he is no fan of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, but said jumping to conclusions - especially without regard for repercussions back home - is unwise.

"Outlines and consequences [of going to war in Syria] are unknowable and terrifying," Carlson said.

He challenged Commentary Magazine editor Noah Rothman about his reaction to the Fox News host's earlier remarks.

He told Rothman that Defense Secretary Jim Mattis himself does not know all the facts surrounding the attack and is "still assessing intelligence."

"You accused me of 'defending a bloodsoaked regime'," Carlson said. "I am questioning anyone who states as fact what he doesn't know [to be] fact."

Rothman said Carlson's previous comments were praised by content outlets in enemy nations like Iran TV.

The former Mediaite editor added that Carlson was also "advancing pro-Assad narratives."

Carlson disagreed, reiterating that people like Rothman who demand positive action are "tools of people who want us to proceed [to] war."

Watch more above.

Rand Paul: Anti-Trump FBI Officials Strzok and Page Still Have Security Clearances

'The Worst Thing Trump Could Do': Rush Limbaugh Urges Trump Not to Fire MuellerWATCH: Dem Congresswoman Dozes Off During Nancy Pelosi's 8-Hour DACA Speech

Ingraham: Ryan's Exit a 'Clear Sign' That GOP Establishment Is Yielding to Trump's Vision

Sen. Cory Booker echoed the sentiments of Nancy Pelosi when he downplayed bonuses to workers after the Republicans' tax cuts.

Booker said the one-time employee bonuses have been "advertised so much" but they pale in comparison to the stock buybacks announced by corporations.

"Who's getting the most? We're getting crumbs. By the way, for those people who might have gotten $1,000 as a bonus, remember that's not free money. It's coming with the cost of driving up our debt," the New Jersey Democrat said.

The House minority leader drew criticism from within her own party after she notably denigrated the bonuses as "crumbs" at a January news conference.

She later modified her stance by saying she is "thankful" when people receive a bonus check, but wants to see "long-term raises."

Trump likened Pelosi's comment about "crumbs" to Hillary Clinton insulting his supporters as "deplorables" during the 2016 campaign.

"People are getting 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 dollars. That's not crumbs. That's a lot of money," he said.

On "Fox & Friends," Fox Business Network's Charles Payne pointed out how much debt the Obama administration piled on with little criticism from Democrats.

Payne said Booker - the former mayor of Newark - was actually seen as a "pragmatic thinker" early in his career and was endorsed by Republican Jack Kemp.

Pelosi Tells Story of Grandson Wishing He Had 'Brown Skin and Brown Eyes'

'How Much Are You Worth, Nancy?': Pelosi Heckled at Town Hall While Slamming Trump Tax Law

Trish Regan Calls Out Pelosi for 'Crumbs' Remark: 'What World Do You Live On?''You Accused Me of Defending a Bloodsoaked Regime': Tucker Blasts Journalist Over Syria Attack

GOP Kaine Opponent Rips VA Gov for Vetoing Bill Banning Sanctuary Cities

Laura Ingraham reacted Wednesday to House Speaker Paul Ryan's retirement plans, saying it’s a “clear sign” that the Republican establishment is yielding to President Donald Trump’s vision for the party.

Ingraham said she respects Ryan’s commitment to life and faith. The Wisconsin Republican, 48, who has been House speaker since 2015, announced Wednesday that he intends to leave Congress in January, at the end of his current term.

Ryan, who has been in Congress since 1999, cited a desire to spend more time with his family as a key reason for his decision.

But Ingraham noted that Ryan, like other GOP establishment figures – including former House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) -- are gradually leaving office.

Ingraham said Ryan's departure plan “reveals the schism between the establishment and conservative-Trump wing” of the GOP.

She pointed to Ryan's initial reluctance to back candidate Donald Trump for president, before the two developed a working relationship following Trump’s 2016 victory.

"Trump is now, in his own way, making a difference," Ingraham said.

She said that the fact Trump won and Ryan is departing is a "clear sign" that the establishment is finally ceding the party to Trump, “a man who took it in the first place."

Former Sec'y of State Albright Rips Trump: 'He Acts Like He's Above the Law'

Rand Paul: Anti-Trump FBI Officials Strzok and Page Still Have Security Clearances'The Worst Thing Trump Could Do': Rush Limbaugh Urges Trump Not to Fire Mueller

Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said Wednesday that she is concerned President Trump acts as though he is "above the law."

Albright, who served under Bill Clinton, commented in her new book, "Fascism: A Warning," that Trump is seemingly the least democratic commander-in-chief she has seen.

She said on "The Daily Briefing with Dana Perino" that Trump seems to lack respect for traditional democracy, particularly the First Amendment.

"I am a great believer in Freedom of the Press. I think it's very important. I think it's exceptionally important for there to be discussions -- civil, good discussions," she said.

She said of potential retaliation in Syria after the use of chemical weapons that there needs to be "some" response.

"It can't just be a one-off," she said. "I think there really has to be some kind of a strategic approach to it and a plan, and I am worried about it."

Saturday's attack unfolded amid a resumed offensive by the Syrian government. The Assad regime has denied responsibility, but many believe it is behind the deadly strike.

Albright added that she doesn't like "foreign policy by tweets," referring to the president's tweets Wednesday regarding firing missiles to Syria.

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

Watch more above.

Haley on Syria Chemical Attack: 'Only a Monster Does This'

'Remember, It's America First': Tomi Lahren Says Trump Should Pull Out of Syria Entirely

Tucker Takes on Critics Over Skepticism of Syria Strikes: They Want You to 'Shut Up and Obey''You Accused Me of Defending a Bloodsoaked Regime': Tucker Blasts Journalist Over Syria Attack

'The Worst Thing Trump Could Do': Rush Limbaugh Urges Trump Not to Fire Mueller

A state senate candidate in Michigan praised federal lawmakers for challenging Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on alleged censorship after his own campaign annoucement was blocked.

Aric Nesbitt, of the Grand Rapids area, said he tried to "boost" his online campaign announcement when the social media giant blocked it and sent him a message calling it "shocking and disrespectful material."

Tucker Carlson asked Nesbitt what could have been construed as shocking or disrespectful.

Nesbitt said he's "still trying to figure that out."

He said the announcement consisted of his basic policy platform of "limited government," lower taxes, defending the unborn and protecting the Second Amendment.

Carlson said that left-wing Silicon Valley may have taken issue with the last two.

Nesbitt praised Reps. Tim Walberg and Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) for challenging Zuckerberg on the topic.

Carlson pointed out that Tennessee Republican Rep. Marsha Blackburn also posed pointed questions to the 33-year-old billionaire, who said he strives to rid Facebook of "terrorism" and related objectionable content.

"Diamond and Silk is not terrorism," Blackburn said, referring to the pair of conservative activists in neighboring North Carolina.

GOP Kaine Opponent Rips VA Gov for Vetoing Bill Banning Sanctuary Cities

Former Sec'y of State Albright Rips Trump: 'He Acts Like He's Above the Law'Former Sec'y of State Albright Rips Trump: 'He Acts Like He's Above the Law'

GOP Kaine Opponent Rips VA Gov for Vetoing Bill Banning Sanctuary Cities

Kimberly Guilfoyle reacted to the federal raid on President Trump's personal attorney's properties.

On Monday, FBI agents raided the office, home and hotel room of Michael Cohen, who has been under scrutiny for his payments to adult film star Stormy Daniels ahead of the 2016 presidential election.

"Can you imagine at the inception [of the Mueller probe] where this investigation was supposed to go and where it has traveled, far beyond where the initial scope [was]?" Guilfoyle said.

The raid, though not formally a decision by special counsel Robert Mueller, is reported to be tied to the subject matter Mueller is investigating.

"There's been such a wide swath of net cast here trying to get anything [on Trump] that they can," Guilfoyle said.

Guilfoyle added that, as a former prosecutor in California, she once brought a homicide case against two attorneys.

When acquiring documents for evidence, she said it was "very complicated" to scour the suspects' homes without taking documents deemed "attorney-client privilege."

In that way, she said there was likely a sensitive legal requirement that would have to be followed when taking things from Cohen's home.

"You have to have someone in to make sure you aren't taking anything improper," she said.

"They better have some really compelling probable cause to support this," she said, adding that it should be a concern of all Americans no matter their political affiliation.

Rand Paul: Anti-Trump FBI Officials Strzok and Page Still Have Security Clearances

Paul Ryan on His Relationship With Trump: 'We've Developed a Good Friendship'Former Sec'y of State Albright Rips Trump: 'He Acts Like He's Above the Law'

GOP Kaine Opponent Rips VA Gov for Vetoing Bill Banning Sanctuary Cities

National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow said he understands farmers' concerns over the repercussions of potential agricultural tariffs floated by China.

Kudlow also floated the idea of meeting with concerned farmers on the matter.

The trade partner proffered the tariffs in response to President Trump's pledge to hold nations accountable for unfair trade practices that hurt Americans and American jobs.

Larry Kudlow: “I’m a free trader. I’m not a big ‘tariff’ guy, but we cannot let China get away with these unfair and, frankly, illegal, trade practices.” #TheStory pic.twitter.com/0Px2mPFjRL — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 11, 2018

Martha MacCallum mentioned a recent guest on her program - a soybean farmer - was concerned, like many in the Heartland, that agricultural tariffs could crater the prices of their goods.

"Stay cool," Kudlow said. "There are no tariffs yet."

Kudlow said he is interested in meeting with the farmer and others so that they can express their concerns over Trump's proposals and what China may do in return.

MacCallum said that particular farmer voted for Trump, as well as most of his community.

"We cannot let China get away with [unfair trade practices and intellectual property theft]," Kudlow said.

He said the White House must heed the advice attributed to Ronald Reagan when engaging in agreements: "Trust, but verify."

'The Worst Thing Trump Could Do': Rush Limbaugh Urges Trump Not to Fire Mueller

Gohmert: 'Corrupt' Mueller Deserves to Be Fired, But Trump Can't Act Due to PoliticsRand Paul: Anti-Trump FBI Officials Strzok and Page Still Have Security Clearances

'The Worst Thing Trump Could Do': Rush Limbaugh Urges Trump Not to Fire Mueller

One of the Republican candidates facing Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) in November blasted Virginia's governor after he vetoed a bill that would have banned sanctuary cities in the Old Dominion.

Prince William County Chairman Corey Stewart said it is unthinkable that Gov. Ralph Northam (D) would make such a move in a state that is afflicted by MS-13 violence.

Laura Ingraham said Northam campaigned as a moderate in the 2017 governor's race, in which he beat progressive former Rep. Tom Perriello (D-Albemarle) in the primary and former RNC Chairman Ed Gillespie in the general election.

State Delegate Mark Levine (D-Alexandria) told Stewart that the bill would've prevented some people in immigrant communities from coming forward to report violent crimes because they'd fear deportation.

"No one would celebrate more than MS-13," Levine said.

Northam defended his veto by saying the "unnecessary and divisive" bill would've made local law enforcement responsible for enforcing and expending extra resources to federal immigration law.

Stewart said Levine's line of thought is "what the left always does."

"It has no basis in truth," Stewart, who faces State Delegate Nick Freitas (R-Culpeper) and Bishop E.W. Jackson (R-Chesapeake) in the primary, said.

Stewart ripped Northam's decision, saying that in his 10 years leading Prince William County - a Washington suburb that includes Woodbridge and Dumfries - more than 8,100 illegal immigrants have been handed over to ICE and the crime rate "dropped in half."

Stewart said that in bordering Fairfax County, lax illegal immigration policies have led to a greater problem with groups like MS-13.

Ingraham played tape of MS-13 member Venus Iraheta, 17, confessing to the brutal stabbing death of another teen in Fairfax.

Stewart said that under his leadership, Prince William County engaged in one of the "toughest illegal immigration crackdowns in the country."

Gohmert: 'Corrupt' Mueller Deserves to Be Fired, But Trump Can't Act Due to Politics

Ryan: I Have 'Assurances' From White House That Trump Won't Fire Mueller, RosensteinThe Republican National Committee launched an aggressive campaign to paint fired FBI Director James Comey as a liar, just days before the airing of his first interview since he was cut loose and shortly before the release next week of his tell-all memoir.

The RNC borrowed a term, coined by then-candidate Donald Trump during the 2016 presidential primaries for “Lyin’ Ted Cruz,” and pegged it to the embattled former chief of the FBI.

The RNC’s new website is www.LyinComey.com, where the GOP plans to fact check Comey’s book and use “rapid response” to highlight any “misstatements” or “contradictions” in it, according to an RNC official.

“James Comey’s publicity tour is a self-serving attempt to make money and rehabilitate his own image,” RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said. “Comey is a liar and a leaker, and his misconduct led both Republicans and Democrats to call for his firing. If Comey wants the spotlight back on him, we’ll make sure the American people understand why he has no one but himself to blame for his complete lack of credibility.”

The official told Fox News that the RNC has prepared a rapid response team to respond to claims made in Comey’s book, compiled a research team to fact check, and created a “war room” to monitor his appearances.

The website, at first glance, highlights in bold “LYIN’ COMEY,” with a cropped image of Comey’s eyes. The homepage features a cycle of quotes from prominent Democrats questioning Comey’s tenure.

“The FBI has no credibility,” the website quotes Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., as saying in January 2017.

“Maybe he’s not in the right job,” House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., is quoted as saying in November 2016.

“…badly overstepped his bounds,” the site quotes Hillary Clinton as saying in September 2017.

“I do not have confidence in [Comey] any longer,” the site quotes Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., as saying in November 2016.

The website highlights Comey’s claim, during his testimony on Capitol Hill last year, that he had never leaked to the media, but the GOP gives “the truth,” and states that Comey, instead, “asked a friend of [his] to share the content” of one of his memos from a meeting with President Trump to the New York Times.

That memo shared by Columbia University Law Professor Daniel Richman allegedly was in order to spur the appointment of a special counsel.

Richman told Fox News on Thursday he had no comment on the RNC’s new website.

The website also highlights the claim that Comey was wrongly terminated from his post at the FBI, and gives “the truth” that Democrats “long questioned Comey’s ability to lead the FBI and even called for him to be fired.”

Another section of the site claims that Comey “wants to portray himself as a non-partisan, by-the-book Boy Scout rather than a politically motivated Washington insider.”

The RNC, again, paints “the truth,” noting that “even Democrats and members of the liberal media have slammed Comey as a partisan, political leaker.”

The site, again, quotes Hillary Clinton, who once reportedly said that Comey “bowed to partisan pressure.”

At the bottom of the homepage, the RNC trumpets “Obstruction?” noting that Comey “may” use his book tour to “push the phony narrative” that Trump obstructed the Russia investigation.

The RNC, again, attempts to correct the record, noting that Comey has “confirmed multiple times under oath that neither President Trump nor his staff asked him to stop the Russia investigation.”

The RNC has also launched two digital video campaign attack ads against Comey—one titled “Comey Not Credible, Just Ask Democrats,” and another “Comey: A ‘Leaker’ and ‘Washington Insider.’”

The Democratic National Committee did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment on the RNC’s strategy.

Comey’s memoir, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” which will be officially released on April 17, is expected to share “never-before-told experience from some of the highest-stakes situations of his career.”

A preview of his book on iTunes.com states: “His journey provides an unprecedented entry into the corridors of power, and a remarkable lesson in what makes an effective leader.”

Comey is expected to address his firing from the FBI in May 2017, and controversial issues that arose during his tenure as director of the bureau.

Comey served as FBI director from 2013 to 2017, a former President Barack Obama appointee. He previously served as a U.S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, and the U.S. deputy attorney general in the George W. Bush administration.

“From prosecuting the Mafia and Martha Stewart to helping change the Bush administration’s policies on torture and electronic surveillance, overseeing the Hillary Clinton e-mail investigation as well as ties between the Trump campaign and Russia, Comey has been involved in some of the most consequential cases and policies of recent history,” the book’s description reads.

Comey’s first stop in promoting his book will be on ABC News with George Stephanopoulos. ABC released excerpts of the pre-taped interview, where Comey likens President Trump to a “mob boss.”

An ABC News spokesperson told Fox News in a statement that “the interview will speak for itself—we expect it [to be] revealing, tough and fair.”

The interview airs on ABC News Sunday night at 10:00 p.m. EST.

Fox News’ Brian Flood contributed to this report.An alleged drug queen and her gang — who have ties to El Chapo’s Sinaloa cartel — are believed to be responsible in part for the surge in violence that has ravaged Cancun over the past year, according to a report.

Leticia Rodriguez Lara — who goes by “Dona Lety” and “La 40” — and her alleged gunrunners have wrested control of narcotics sales in the tourist hotspot and nearby resort Playa del Carmen from rival cartel Los Zetas following a murderous turf war, Nine News in Australia reported Wednesday.

The murder rates in Cancun have doubled in a year, with 113 people killed so far in 2018.

The opioid crisis in the US has also had an indirect role in the staggering stats.

MEXICO JUDGE ORDERS TRIAL FOR ALLEGED DRUG QUEEN OF CANCUN

The cartels, seeing opportunity in a hungry US market, have started to switch from growing marijuana to harvesting opium poppies to manufacture heroin, according to USA Today.

Deadly battles have erupted between competing cartels over the valuable poppy-producing territories in these once-bucolic seaside regions.

And the cartels, such as Lara’s, have also been extorting local bar and restaurant owners for large amounts of cash, Nine News said.

Lara was a former federal police officer before she became one of the only women in Mexico to run her own drug gang.

The 48-year-old druglord has been wanted by authorities since 2012 and was arrested in August. Her son was also charged.

Read more from the New York Post.In the latest complaint lodged against Meghan Markle by her estranged half-sister, Samantha Grant, the future wife of Prince Harry was accused of excluding several family members from her upcoming wedding.

Grant sounded off on Twitter against her little sister's decision to leave out many of their family members from her May 19 wedding to Prince Harry. She also claimed that she and Markle are 15th cousins with Harry.

"And it’s not only Meg who is 15th cousin to Harry. My brother and I are also. I was the first born Markle to my father. Exclude the [Markles] from this wedding would be highly inappropriate," Grant tweeted on Thursday alongside a family tree which she claimed proved the Markles are related to the royal family.

"At issue is not a matter of closeness as more than 1000 complete strangers are invited. Family is family," Grant tweeted on Wednesday. "I have an uncle I have only seen once but I would never say he is not family because we are not close. Humanitarians move forward with love and kindness especially to Family."

MEGHAN MARKLE AND PRINCE HARRY'S ROYAL WEDDING: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW

Grant followed up her tweet by saying, "Smoke and mirrors cannot hide the elephant in the room. Out of respect, tradition, and humanitarianism, the #Markles should be invited if 2000 complete strangers are invited. Our uncle who got her the internship, brother, me, best friend of 30 years Nikki Priddy, nephews. Fact."

The soon-to-be royal and Prince Harry have invited 2,640 people into the grounds of Windsor Castle. The majority of those invited, 1,200 to be exact, will be members of the public, nominated by local Lord Lieutenant offices.

The "Suits" actress reportedly has an estranged relationship with her older sister. Grant has spoken ill of Markle in the past, saying, "Hollywood has changed her. I think her ambition is to become a princess…The truth would kill her relationship with Prince Harry."

While Grant is ticked off at the actress, Markle's nephew Tyler Dooley harbors no hard feelings toward his aunt for leaving him off of the guest list.

Dooley told "Good Morning Britain" in March that he hadn’t gotten an invitation.

The Oregon native appeared on British morning show with his mother Tracy, who is divorced from Thomas Markle Jr. The mother-son pair said the royal-to-be used to babysit Tyler and his brother Thomas.

Tracy said, “I don’t think we are getting invitations, but that is fine, we are so proud of her.”

Tyler added he last communicated with the former “Suits” actress three years ago and it as an “honor” to see her become part of the royal family.

One family member that is rumored to definitely be in attendance is Markle's father, Tom, whom the actress reportedly asked to walk her down the aisle.The revelation that federal prosecutors are seeking documents related to the notorious “Access Hollywood” tape of Donald Trump saying demeaning things about women has cast a harsh new spotlight on NBC News, which mysteriously sat on the tape for weeks or months — until it had been leaked to The Washington Post.

The feds who raided the offices of Trump attorney Michael Cohen were reportedly seeking information about the tape — but anti-Trump NBC has so far evaded scrutiny. Instead, it’s the pro-Trump National Enquirer which is now facing the brunt of media shaming over its alleged suppression of negative Trump stories.

Conservative columnist Britt McHenry told Fox News the FBI investigation has “gone off the rails,” giving the appearance that Trump and his supporters are being targeted. As the FBI continues to probe Trump’s past, liberal media members are scolding the National Enquirer for allegedly sitting on a story while NBC gets a pass.

“Only time will tell how this proceeding plays out, but it begs the question why NBC, vocal in its dislike of a Trump, has yet to face similar scrutiny for sitting on the ‘Access Hollywood’ tape,” McHenry said.

Federalist contributor Joseph Wulfsohn told Fox News that he doesn’t see why investigators are looking at the Enquirer’s decision, as it is a private company, unless Cohen paid to keep material under wraps. However, he says, “NBC did the opposite” and kept the “Access Hollywood” tape in its back pocket until it could do the “most political damage to Trump.”

Wulfsohn said NBC’s move was “journalistically unethical,” but shouldn’t warrant an FBI investigation, either, unless there is criminal wrongdoing that the public isn’t aware of.

NBC News has never given a coherent explanation of why it didn’t broadcast the tape. Now, the effort to obtain records related to the tape has sparked renewed interest in how NBC News botched the situation, and in the mystery of NBC’s motivations for delaying action to air the audio.

Mediaite columnist John Ziegler wrote on Wednesday that it was “a highly unethical political decision by someone at NBC” not to release the tape itself before it was eventually leaked.

The tape of Trump – a dominating storyline in the news cycle preceding the 2016 election -- was recorded on a hot mic during the taping of NBCUniversal-owned “Access Hollywood” in 2005 and reportedly landed on NBC News chairman Andy Lack’s desk days or weeks before the incendiary contents were finally aired in October 2016.

Just how long NBC knew about the tape is an open question. NBC sources tell Fox News that NBC staffers were openly discussing the existence of the tape in August 2016 in Rio, where star Billy Bush was providing Olympics coverage. Bush could be heard egging Trump on in the "Access Hollywood" recording.

Eventually, just weeks before the 2016 election, the tape was leaked to The Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold, who is a close friend of NBC News executive Noah Oppenheim from prestigious Harvard University, where the men were editors together at the storied Crimson student newspaper.

Apparently NBC has no hard feelings toward Fahrenthold over his scoop — the network recently signed the anti-Trump newsman to a paid consultancy.

While NBC claimed it was slow to air the tape because the process was gummed up by lawyers, The Post was able to publish it within hours. With the leaked version published, NBC aired the tape a few minutes later – suggesting that it really was ready for broadcast from a legal standpoint.

“The fact that no one has ever even gotten an answer from NBC about how this could have happened is equally unfathomable,” Mediaite's Ziegler wrote.

“NBC doesn’t look good here, and no amount of finessing will make it look any prettier,” Politico wrote at the time.

Following the release of the tape, NBC fired Bush. Shortly thereafter, Oppenheim was promoted to NBC News president.

While NBC has never publicly revealed who leaked the tape and why nobody was held accountable, it’s notable the same executives had no problem quickly figuring out who leaked a tape of MSNBC star Lawrence O’Donnell’s on-camera meltdown. It reportedly took only six days for an NBC News employee to be fired for the incident.

NBC did not respond when asked if the FBI has contacted the network regarding its role in the “Access Hollywood” tape. NBCUniversal did not respond when asked if it ever investigated who leaked the “Access Hollywood” tape.

“There is this expectation that places like NBC are constantly working in good faith. They like using outlets like the Enquirer to contrast themselves with… but their behavior a lot of the times isn’t that different,” Daily Caller media reporter Joe Simonson told Fox News.

NBC has also faced criticisms over the last six months for sitting on another explosive story on sex harassment -- Ronan Farrow’s expose on Harvey Weinstein. Farrow would later take the piece to the prestigious New Yorker magazine, which published his work to great acclaim.

NBC claimed that Farrow’s story as they’d seen it did not meet their editorial standards. Ironically, Farrow, who left NBC after it spiked his Weinstein story, has gone on to report for The New Yorker on allegations that The Enquirer engaged in the tabloid practice called “catch and kill” related to Trump -- buying rights to a damaging story about an ally, then suppressing it rather than publishing.

NBC did not respond when asked if it investigated why Farrow’s reporting was spiked.

As for the “Access Hollywood” tape, some speculate that Lack didn’t want to air the video to protect Bush, who’d been tapped as a potential heir to Matt Lauer. Some feel that the network wanted to wait until as close to Election Day as possible, and some simply feel it was a “glass house” situation.

Ziegler opined that NBC may have wanted The Post to break the story, as it would have taken the focus off why Lack’s network didn’t release it during the Republican primaries. The Mediaite columnist notes that releasing the tape when the GOP had other options would have killed “the media’s golden goose, which was Trump’s ratings-friendly campaign.”

NBC News has a long history of sitting on damaging stories -- dating back to period in 1998 and 1999 when the network sat on an interview with Juanita Broaddrick accusing Bill Clinton of rape.

Back in 1999, while Lack was on his first tour as president of NBC News, the network's “Dateline” program conducted an interview in which Broaddrick gave a lengthy account of her alleged rape, but NBC didn’t air it until after Clinton’s impeachment hearing ended with acquittal.

Broaddrick has accused the network of editing out a portion of her interview in which she discussed Hillary Clinton’s role in silencing her and other victims. She has since called for Lack to re-air the interview in its entirety, to no avail.

It’s notable that both stories NBC sat on involve mistreatment of women.

Industry insiders have pondered for months whether NBC News had been wary of running the Weinstein scoop due to its own problems inside 30 Rockefeller Plaza. A few weeks after Weinstein was outed, NBC News was forced to fire its biggest star, "Today" co-host Lauer, for his own sexual misconduct.

Shortly after Lauer was fired for sexual misconduct last year, Lack announced a “culture assessment” of the division he oversees. He installed an assortment of other bureaucratic efforts to combat sex harassment, such as focus groups and mandatory training on workplace behavior.

None of the steps taken by NBC News place any blame on Lack or Oppenheim, who are responsible for spiking two of the biggest sex harassment stories in recent memory.

NBCUniversal has claimed that its corporate human resources department is investigating internally to see who knew about Lauer’s pervy behavior, and when it was known, but there have been no public indications that an investigation is actually underway.

Lack and Lauer were extremely close, even taking luxury vacations together, but Lack has emerged unscathed, as has Oppenheim, who has a long history as an executive at “Today”. In fact, Oppenheim told NBC producers after Lauer’s firing that all he knew about the co-host's reputedly pervy ways was what he saw on the covers of supermarket tabloids when he was on the grocery line.

A source close to NBC says that the investigation, if it was ever really underway, now appears to be dead. Over the past five months, NBC’s parent company has repeatedly told Fox News that it doesn’t have an update on the alleged internal investigation. It did not respond to the latest inquiry.next

prev

Savannah Guthrie promises that the "Today" show has been purged of all "creeps" since the NBC morning show fired Matt Lauer after multiple women accused him of sexual assault and harassment.

Lauer's former co-host told The Hollywood Reporter "there are no creeps" at "Today."

"We're all married, we're all pretty boring and there's a presumption of good faith, you know?" Guthrie said in defense of the remaining NBC hosts, a group that includes Carson Daly, Al Roker and Craig Melvin.

Guthrie's new co-host, Hoda Kotb, also defended the male "Today" reporters saying, "Al's like your crazy uncle, Carson's your best guy friend. I hug Craig when I see him. We don't feel like there's a new set of rules that we cannot be ourselves."

While the female hosts may not have to face "creeps" on the set of "Today," Kotb revealed she's still in touch with disgraced Lauer, even after one woman accused the 60-year-old of sexually assaulting her in his office until she passed out.

"We keep in touch with him," Kotb said of her current relationship with Lauer. "I mean look, this is one of those complex situations. I’ve known him since I started working at NBC [in 1998]. When I was sick with breast cancer, he was the first to call. He helps and helped in ways that … you know, he was incredible in that way."

She added, "There is that Matt and then there’s the Matt that the accusers speak of. And those accusers’ voices matter and that story matters."

To Guthrie, Kotb added, "It’s still tough, right?"

Guthrie replied, "Yes."

Lauer was fired from the show in November 2017 after it was revealed he had allegedly violated NBC’s workplace harassment policies on several occasions with different women working at the show.

Kotb was announced as Lauer's replacement on January 2.President Trump on Thursday trumpeted the success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, telling an audience in the White House Rose Garden that the recent reforms have allowed workers to pocket more money.

Continue Reading Below

“Married couples won’t pay a dime of income tax on their first $24,000 of income,” Trump said. “A typical family of four earning $75,000 a year will see their tax bill slashed in half. Nobody thought they'd ever see that -- have a lot more money to spend.”

Trump’s speech came amid surging optimism among American manufacturers thanks to the after-effects of the GOP’s recently-implemented tax reform law. More than 93% of manufacturers have a positive outlook on their company’s prospects in the U.S. economy – the second-highest level ever recorded by the National Association of Manufacturers – its most recent quarterly survey revealed.

Meanwhile, optimism among small manufacturers was at its highest level ever recorded throughout the survey’s 20 year history; 94.5% of companies reported that they were positive about their future.

Wage growth among those manufacturers surveyed also rose at the fastest pace in 17 years. Despite a strengthening labor market, wage growth has remained sluggish in the overall U.S. economy as productivity growth stagnates. However, the Trump administration is hopeful that an uptick in investment in the U.S. economy will begin to reverse those trends, a sentiment echoed by NAM president Jay Timmons.

“Empowered by tax reform and regulatory relief, manufacturers are now investing in our people through new jobs, higher wages, bonuses and growing our operations right here in the United States,” Timmons said in a statement.

Advertisement

The survey showed that manufacturers expected full-time employment to increase by 2.9% on average over the next year, an all-time high by the survey’s standards. Companies also said capital investments are likely to rise by 3.9% over the next 12 months, while inventories are expected to rise by 1.7%.

Among the items manufacturers are hoping to see moving forward in order to continue boosting optimism in the sector are the implementation of the $1.5 trillion infrastructure revamp, continued deregulation and increased opportunity to sell products overseas.

The top concern for companies was the ability to attract and maintain qualified workers.Another member of the White House's National Security Council resigned Thursday, as newly-installed national security adviser Ambassador John Bolton cleans house during his first week in the administration.

Deputy national security adviser Ricky Waddell resigned from his post Thursday, the White House said.

“Rick will be leaving and his departure date has yet to be confirmed,” a White House official said in a statement.

Waddell, an Army reserve major general, joined the NSC in May 2017, following President Trump’s first deputy national security advisor K.T. McFarland’s exit.

Waddell reported directly to H.R. McMaster, who resigned as national security adviser last month.

DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER NADIA SCHADLOW RESIGNS ON BOLTON'S THIRD DAY AT WHITE HOUSE

Waddell’s resignation follows a slew of other departures this week: NSC spokesman Michael Anton resigned Sunday, White House homeland security adviser Thomas Bossert resigned Monday, and deputy national security adviser Nadia Schadlow resigned Tuesday.

Bolton, who was appointed last month and had his first day at the White House Monday, is said to be “cleaning house” at the NSC, according to a White House source.

A national security source also told Fox News that Bolton is considering a merger of the NSC and Homeland Security Council (HSC) within the White House. Currently, the NSC and HSC staff function as separate bodies, with their own meetings and policy issues, but share a staff.

HOMELAND SECURITY ADVISER TOM BOSSERT RESIGNS, WHITE HOUSE SAYS

Under the George W. Bush administration, the HSC and NSC worked as separate staffs. During the early years of the Obama administration, HSC and NSC merged, but later split.

The NSC primarily focuses on U.S. foreign policy and nuclear proliferation, while the HSC focuses on national defense-related issues like terrorism and border security.

If Bolton does merge the HSC and NSC, the bodies would hold joint meetings on mutually-agreed upon issues, and provide joint policy recommendations to the president, a national security source told Fox News.

JOHN BOLTON TO REPLACE H.R. MCMASTER AS WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER, TRUMP SAYS

Bolton has previously served in the administrations of presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and George W. Bush, and served as a Bush lawyer during the 2000 Florida recount. Bolton served as a U.S. permanent representative to the United Nations from 2005 to 2006, and as undersecretary of state for arms control and international security from 2001 to 2005.

The position of White House national security adviser does not require Senate confirmation. Bolton has been a controversial pick for Trump, who has drawn criticism from Democrats since his appointment.

Bolton is now Trump’s third national security adviser—replacing McMaster, who replaced Michael Flynn.

Fox News’ Jennifer Bowman, John Roberts and Gillian Turner contributed to this report.The Seattle Seahawks reportedly postponed Colin Kaepernick’s trip to a pre-season camp with the team after the embattled quarterback told the team he would not stop his national anthem kneeling protests.

The team is thinking about allowing Kaepernick to try out for a spot on the team but they have not made any decisions, a source told ESPN.

Kaepernick, a former San Francisco 49ers quarterback, was contacted by the Seahawks around two weeks ago to make a trip to the team’s center and practice. A source told ESPN the trip was put off after the Seahawks argued about Kaepernick’s anthem protest.

It's unclear what day the quarterback was supposed to practice with the team.

The team reportedly asked Kaepernick if he would continue his protest if he was signed to the NFL again and he was “unwilling to give that assurance to them.”

Kaepernick began kneeling during the national anthem during the 2016 to 2017 season as part of a protest against police brutality while he was with the San Francisco 49ers. Many other NFL players joined his protest, which angered many — most notably President Trump, who said Kaepernick should have been “suspended” for kneeling.

COLIN KAEPERNICK'S LAWYERS SEEK DEPOSITIONS OF EX-PAPA JOHN'S CEO, ROGER GOODELL'S WIFE, REPORTS SAY

"The NFL should have suspended him for one game and he would have never done it again," Trump told Fox News Sean Hannity in October. "They could have then suspended him for two games and they could have suspended him again if he did it a third time, for the season, and you would never have had a problem."

On Tuesday, Kaepernick attended a deposition with NFL lawyers in New York.

In October, Kaepernick filed a grievance case accusing NFL owners of colluding against him to keep him out of the league under a collective bargaining agreement. He opted out of his contract with the 49ers following the 2016 to 2017 season and has remained unsigned.

Since Kaepernick opted out of his contract, no NFL team has contacted him to join the team. The Baltimore Ravens were reportedly thinking about signing him last year but decided not to go forward.

TRUMP: NFL SHOULD HAVE SUSPENDED COLIN KAEPERNICK FOR KNEELING

Following news of the snub, ESPN senior correspondent Jemele Hill began tweeting about the report. Hill tweeted, “You mean it wasn’t just a football decision? :clutches imaginary pearls.”

“He’s such a locker room cancer that his teammates gave him the Len Eshmont Award, which is given to the player who best exemplifies courage and inspiration. Great point by you,” Hill tweeted to a social media user.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.'You Hate America': Tucker Battles Illegal Immigration Advocate Over Honduran 'Caravan' to US

Two elementary school students kneeled on the field during the pregame national anthem ceremony at a Seattle Mariners game.

A video posted on Twitter by a fan at the game, Louis Penna, showed the two girls kneeling – across from the military honor guard presenting two American flags -- as they performed “The Star-Spangled Banner” Saturday with the student choir from Seattle’s Mount View Elementary School.

Two young girls exercising their rights @SafecoField ✊ pic.twitter.com/jOOYxnHoSM — Louis Penna (@louispenna) April 1, 2018

Seattle’s Highline Public Schools said in a statement to the Huffington Post: "Obviously, the school district respects the First Amendment rights of our students ... [it's an] individual act by the students."

Here at Safeco Field where an elementary school sung the anthem and two students took a knee while performing. pic.twitter.com/HwHIsowsxN — Ryan S. Clark (@ryan_s_clark) April 1, 2018

On "Fox & Friends First" Tuesday, U.S. Army officer and opinion columnist Jeremy Hunt said he believes children are being taught "revisionist history" in schools.

"It's so incredible just seeing how the story really shows just the cultural divide taking place in our country," he said.

Hunt said he doesn't think patriotism is being taught enough to students.

"Even worse than that, [kids] are not being taught the same American history that many [older citizens] were brought up learning," he said.

The action taken by the students comes nearly two years after former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick sparked a national movement by kneeling in protest during the national anthem before a preseason game.

A photo of the kneeling girls was re-tweeted by Kaepernick.

Americans 'Deserve to Come First': Tomi Lahren Blasts CA Gov for Pardoning Immigrants

Trump Rips Dems on DACA at Easter Egg Roll: They 'Really Let Them Down'

CA GOP Gov. Candidate: Brown 'Ought to Act to Protect The People'An Oklahoma City Thunder broadcaster came under fire Wednesday night for using an old Southern phrase – with possible racial connotations – when talking about Russell Westbrook’s play.

Westbrook, who became the only NBA player ever to finish two seasons averaging a triple-double in points, was on fire in the second quarter, prompting play-by-play guy Brian Davis to say the superstar point guard was “out of his cotton-picking mind.”

Did he just say “Westbrook is out of his cotton-picking mind”?..... pic.twitter.com/fvPZ5cTkjx — Mark Robinson (@MarkyRobs) April 12, 2018

The expression “cotton-picking” is used as a term of disapproval or to describe something that is troublesome or a nuisance, according to Phrases.org.

Davis, who has done play-by-play for the Thunder on Fox Sports Oklahoma for eight seasons, didn’t appear to use the phrase maliciously, but came under fire for using it anyway.

Former NFL running back LenDale White wrote on Twitter, “This man jus (sic) said that ‘cotton picking mind,’” accompanied with “#okc” and “wtf.”

“If you’re a white man in America, you should know better than to say ‘cotton picking’ referring to anyone of us,” another Twitter user wrote.

Davis is a veteran behind the mic. He started out calling Chicago Bulls games on the radio for the Michael Jordan-era in 1991. He eventually moved to cover the Seattle SuperSonics and then the Thunder.A former Miami Dolphins cheerleader filed a complaint against the team and the NFL on Thursday alleging that she was discriminated against because of her Christian beliefs.

Kristan Ware, who spent three seasons as a cheerleader with the Dolphins, said in her complaint that she was held to a different standard because of her religious views and her gender, The New York Times reported. Ware’s final season came in 2017.

Ware stated in her complaint that the team’s cheerleading director, Dorie Grogan, ridiculed and disciplined her after she posted a photo of herself on social media being baptized in the offseason, according to the newspaper.

CHEERLEADERS FOR NFL, NBA, NHL TEAMS REVEAL SEXUAL HARASSMENT, ‘HANDSY’ FANS COME WITH THE JOB

Ware also contends that cheerleading coaches mocked her after it was learned that she was a virgin and that she planned on waiting for marriage to have sex, The New York Times reported. When confronted by Grogan, Ware allegedly told her coach she only shared the information when she was asked.

“As far as we are concerned, you have taken something that was once upon a time pure and beautiful and you’ve made it dirty.” Grogan allegedly told Ware, according to The Washington Post.

Ware also reportedly claimed that an angel-winged bikini she wore for a fashion show in 2016 was meant to make fun of her virginity.

Ware said she went to the team’s human resources department in 2016 to complain, but the ridicule and harassment continued.

“There is a sense of manipulation, where any time you raised a concern, it was like, ‘All we need is a pretty girl to wear the uniform. You’re completely replaceable, so if you have a problem with it, leave. 100 other girls want your spot,’ ” Ware told The Washington Post. “I want to make a positive difference where these girls can have their dreams come true with compromising who they are. The silence needs to end. The intimidation needs to end.”

EX-NFL CHEERLEADER CLAIMS TEAM EXECUTIVE TOLD HER SHE HAD ‘DIRTY FACE’ IN CONTROVERSIAL INSTRAGRAM PICTURE

Even when Ware wrote a blog post for the Dolphins’ website, all mentions of her faith were removed except for a general reference to God, according to The Post. In her complaint, Ware stated that she was treated differently over her religious views compared to those of the players – who had a team chaplain.

“As far as we are concerned, you have taken something that was once upon a time pure and beautiful and you’ve made it dirty." - Allegedly from Dorie Grogan

Sara Blackwell, Ware’s attorney, told The New York Times, that her client wasn’t focusing on any monetary damage, though “they are requested.” Ware was demanding arbitration from the Florida Commission on Human Relations and a hearing with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell.

“What we all really want is for the NFL to pay attention,” Blackwell told The Post. “We want them to have us over and say, ‘Where are we going wrong, and how can we fix it?’ As an employment lawyer, it wouldn’t cost them a penny to make this a successful and wonderful program, where people could be proud and not be harassed and not be discriminated against.”

Blackwell is also the attorney for former New Orleans Saints cheerleader Bailey Davis who is also suing the Saints and the NFL over alleged double standards regarding male and female employees.

The NFL, who does not employ or operate the cheerleading squads, said in a statement that it supports fair employement practices.

"Everyone who works in the NFL, including cheerleaders, has the right to work in a positive and respectful environment that is free from any and all forms of harassment and discrimination and fully complies with state and federal laws," NFL Spokesman Brian McCarthy said. "Our office will work with our clubs in sharing best practices and employment-related processes that will support club cheerleading squads within an appropriate and supportive workplace."

Davis and Ware appeared on ESPN together to discuss the complaints. Ware alleged she was told by Grogan that she should be quiet about her faith and "not talk too much about Jesus." She recalled one instance when she was doing a photoshoot and Ware told her to hold a fruit basket as if they were testicles.

"I thought I was being tested because my virginity was just brought up in a negative light," Ware said.

She said she started to become emotionally distressed and started receiving headaches from the stress.

Ware said Davis played a huge role in her coming forward with the allegations.

"All of this had to do with God," Ware said. "It was God's perfect timing and I had to be honest with my story."An 80-year-old man accused of murdering a Kansas City lawyer who sued him accidentally recorded himself admitting to the crime, police said.

David Jungerman was charged Wednesday with first-degree murder and armed criminal action in the shooting death of Kansas City attorney Tom Pickert, whose body was found on the front porch of his house in October 2017, Kansas City Star reported. Jungerman was cleared as a suspect in November before the incriminating evidence emerged.

Before his death, Pickert won a $5.75 million lawsuit against Jungerman for shooting at his client and three others in 2012. The 80-year-old had suspected the four men were stealing copper from his property. Jungerman was also served property liens a day before Pickert died.

Jungerman then went to a court hearing in Vernon County weeks after the shooting and left the courthouse without turning off a recorder he had been using. In the recording — recovered during a search of his home and business — Jungerman was heard telling an individual that he “murdered that son of a…” appearing to refer to Pickert, according to court documents.

The baby furniture store owner then told an employee in March he "killed a lawyer with a gun and gotten away with it," court documents stated. "He did it because the lawyer stole his money."

Witnesses told investigators they saw a white van and a gray-haired man, believed to be Jungerman, near the crime scene in October. The description of the truck matched the one belonging to Jungerman.

The 80-year-old was already being held without bond from another shooting incident that occurred March 8. He allegedly shot at a man who he believed stole 780 pounds of iron pipe from his building.

Jungerman denied being at the scene of the October shooting, Kansas City Star reported.An Arizona woman accused of killing her toddler son and infant daughter said Wednesday she feels "betrayed" by the children's babysitter, who she claims was watching them the day they died.

Brittany Velasquez, 20, contacted the FOX10 Phoenix newsroom from jail and denied murdering her two children.

"I haven't been showing too much emotion to everything that's going on, because I don't know how to feel. I'm just very hurt. My pride and joy were taken from me, and it makes me really mad," she said.

Velasquez also told FOX10 she felt betrayed by the babysitter, and that she had worked a 12-hour shift at a restaurant the day the two children were found dead.

"It makes me very mad," she said. "I feel betrayed. I really feel betrayed."

ARIZONA MOM TRIED TO BLAME SOMEONE ELSE AFTER KIDS FOUND DEAD IN CAR SEATS, POLICE SAY

Authorities, however, said that she never left her children with a babysitter but instead left them in the car for the entire day, which led to their deaths. The two children were found “cold to the touch” in a vehicle, still strapped into their car seats, according to court documents filed last month.

The 20-year-old at one point also blamed the children's death on her grandparents, who denied knowing any arrangement about caring for the children.

In another point during the 10-minute phone conversation with FOX10, Velasquez said her daughter was "very, very happy," adding "there's not a moment I'd never seen her smile."

ARIZONA MOTHER ARRESTED AFTER TODDLER, BABY FOUND DEAD IN CAR SEATS, POLICE SAY

On the day Velasquez was charged, her brother described the 20-year-old to FOX10 as a woman who is "very manipulative."

The 20-year-old is scheduled to appear in court again on Friday.

Fox News' Katherine Lam contributed to this report.Investigators say a Florida man shopped for duct tape, garbage bags, a mop, cleaning supplies and a gasoline cans in the days before he killed his father, a disgraced former Michigan judge.

The body of 74-year-old James "Skip" Scandirito was found April 4 on an abandoned golf course. His 49-year-old son, also named James Scandirito, was arrested five days later in north Florida where he's being held on a murder charge.

The Palm Beach Post reports that Boca Raton police haven't said where, when or why they believe Scandirito was killed. But an investigative report says the son was the sole beneficiary of much of his father's estimated worth of $800,000.

Skip Scandirito resigned a judgeship in Macomb County, Michigan, in 2000 in the face of sexual misconduct charges.One of the Hart moms who died when an SUV fatally plunged off a Northern California cliff last month had sent a text two days before the crash was discovered, saying she was so sick she might need to go to a hospital, 911 call records from Washington state say.

Hart family friend Cheryl Hart – who is not related to the family – of Vancouver, Wash., said she received Sarah Hart’s text at 3 a.m. March 24, Fox 12 Oregon reported Wednesday.

On March 26, Cheryl Hart called 911 to report that she had not heard back from Sarah since then, the Statesman Journal of Salem, Ore., reported.

"Nobody has been able to get ahold of her, talk to her or seen her since ... or her wife, which is Jen," Cheryl Hart told the dispatcher at 1:15 p.m. March 26. She also said she had checked hospitals, but none said they had a record of treating Sarah Hart.

Several hours after Cheryl Hart alerted authorities, the Hart family's SUV was discovered at the bottom of a Mendocino County cliff, about 100 feet below the Pacific Coast Highway. Authorities found the bodies of Sarah and Jennifer Hart and three of their six adopted children.

The other three children remain missing, although on Saturday a body was pulled from the surf in that area and authorities are working to determine if it is one of the missing children.

Records released this week show Child Protective Services in Washington state tried to contact the Harts on March 23 after abuse allegations were made against them. An official had gone to the Hart’s residence in rural Woodland, Wash., but nobody was home, records said. The official left a card.

Two officials returned March 26 — the day the Harts' SUV was found — and the card from the Friday before had been removed. One of the officials left another card and called law enforcement to request a welfare check.

That same day, a deputy went to check on the family and no one appeared to be home, records said. Authorities returned the next day, and no one appeared to be home again.

In 2011, Sarah Hart was convicted of domestic assault in Minnesota for physical abuse involving one of the children, according to court records. The Harts were also investigated in 2013 when they lived in Oregon after a family friend reported witnessing abuse toward the children.

According to three friends who knew the Harts when they lived in Minnesota in the mid-2000s, the couple fostered a teenage girl who was not among the six who died in the fatal crash, the Seattle Times reported Tuesday. According to the report, the accounts the Minnesota friends gave of the Harts are at odds with the allegations of abuse that have followed the Harts. But accounts do differ on how long they fostered the girl.

Authorities said previously that evidence suggested the fatal crash was deliberate. They said the SUV had stopped at a coastal highway overlook before speeding straight off the cliff and plummeting into the rocky ocean below.

Deputies will continue to search the county's Pacific coastline for the missing children, the Mendocino County Sheriff’s Office said Wednesday.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A former producer on “Jerry Springer” and “Sally Jessy Raphael” has reportedly been arrested for the murder of her sister. Jill Blackstone is believed to have aided her disabled sister in a mercy killing.

In 2015, Blackstone’s sister Wendy died from a combination of carbon monoxide poisoning and Xanax. A suicide note was left behind, but police later had reason to suspect that Jill wrote the note. Wendy, who was blind and partially deaf, was found in an enclosed garage along with three dogs. Jill herself was there and reportedly suffered from severe carbon monoxide poisoning herself, resulting in a two-day hospital stint. This led police to initially believe that the duo engaged in a suicide pact, but that Jill abandoned the agreement during its execution.

According to TMZ, Blackstone was arrested in Baltimore at Johns Hopkins Hospital on Tuesday on a warrant for murder and 3 counts of animal cruelty. She now faces extradition to Los Angeles for prosecution. It's unclear what, if any, new evidence led to law enforcement's decision to arrest Jill after all this time.

Jill was initially taken into custody following the 2015 incident, but the charges were dropped. However, police at the time said that they were still investigating the incident as a potential murder. Doubt was reportedly cast on Jill’s involvement after police say it became clear that she was the author of the suicide note. At the time, Jill said she had no idea that Wendy was suicidal.A jockey and his horse were (literally) stopped in their tracks this week. Masayuki Abe was rounding the corner on his horse at Cannon Park Racecourse in Cairns, Australia, around 5:30 a.m. on Wednesday when he spotted what looked like a "big crack on the ground."

A gateman yelled, "Be careful there is a big..."

Abe couldn't make out the end of the man's sentence, so he continued galloping toward the sand track. On his last lap, he discovered why he was being warned: the dark shadow he was seeing was actually a giant carpet python, slithering across the track.

"I didn't think it was a snake because I've just never seen that big one before," Abe told Fox News. "In two seconds, I realized that was what the gateman was yelling to me and I was so scared after that."

At first, Abe admitted he disregarded the gateman's warning, assuming he was warning about a kangaroo or some other creature.

"I thought maybe it was a big kangaroo or something," he said. "There are millions of Kangaroos on track in Cairns."

He's never seen something quite like this.

"I didn't think it was a snake because I've just never seen that big one before." - Masayuki Abe

Abe estimated the snake was somewhere between 15 and 16 feet long. He tried to distract his horse, so the animal wouldn't be frightened by the giant reptile -- and fortunately, he was succesful.

"My horse didn't even look at that," Abe said.

Abe posted several photos of the impressive creature, which he referred to as a "big boy," on Facebook. Nearly 4,000 shared the jockey's post and hundreds commented on the python's size.

"That's a big fat nope," one Facebook user wrote.

"That thing's huge," another added, asking a friend to join him at the races.

"He's lived a long time! Hope he keeps further away from humans," one user commented.

Abe said the python escaped unharmed, though it awhile -- about four hours -- for him to disappear into the bushes.

"We’ve cancelled meets because of locusts, dogs on the track and even a sheep on the track, but never for a snake before." - John Cameron, Cairns Jockey Club general manager

Cairns Jockey Club general manager John Cameron confirmed to Australia's Cairns Post that this is the first official sighting of a carpet python on racetrack grounds.

“It’s funny, we’ve cancelled meets because of locusts, dogs on the track and even a sheep on the track, but never for a snake before," Cameron told the Post. "“They’re a bit scary for the horses, so we made sure to take the horses away from the area."

The snake's appearance was shocking to some, but Cameron said he's seen ones even bigger in the area. This particular kind, he said, is the "smallest of the family."A brawl broke out during a high school girls basketball game in Georgia and reportedly involved the referee and adults from one of the team’s organizations.

The Savannah Lady Warriors were facing off against the GLA Shockers from Eatonton over the weekend during a tournament at the Jenkins Athletic Club in Savannah, WTOC reported.

The heated moment was caught on video and appeared to show Marcus Fowles, who was refereeing the game, initially get into a dispute with a woman who was thought to be a parent of one of the Shockers players, the outlet said. The incident quickly unraveled after the referee, who spoke to WTOC, called a foul.

YANKEES-RED SOX RIVALRY REIGNITES WITH EARLY SEASON BRAWL

"When she came out of stands, I sit there and I blow the whistle, technical foul,” Fowles told the outlet. “You have to leave the gym. She tells me 'I don't have to go anywhere.'”

“While we're arguing and all that, she takes a swing at me,” he claimed. “When she takes a swing at me, that's when I back up. When I start to back up, if you see in the video, you'll see Jake Simmons the coach come from behind and hit me in the back of the video. And that's when I hit the floor."

He also claimed that Darius Little, the director of the Shockers team, is the woman's husband and he also came onto the court, WTOC reported. Little would not confirm to the outlet that they were married.

Little shared a different perspective with WTOC about how the fight unfolded.

"It was not right for him,” Little told the outlet. “She didn't swing at him. What he did was push her and drew up his hand like he was ready to box her.”

CONOR MCGREGOR SEEN IN NEW VIDEO SHATTERING WINDOW AMID BLOODY BUS FIGHT

Curtis Foster, the coach of the Lady Warriors, also shared his account of the incident with the outlet.

"She told him she wasn't going anywhere. Then, the gentleman came from behind,” Foster said. “The other coach came over and started stomping on him, so at that time, my assistant coach helped me grab one of the guys to get them off him.”

He said the situation “was ridiculous.”

“I've never seen anyone get beat down like that," Foster added.

The incident was reported to authorities on Monday as an assault, WTOC said.

Little told the outlet that he wished the incident hadn't played out the way it did.

"I hold accountability for my organization for not keeping their composure and being humble and just letting the game get over and just pulling the kids and walking away," Little said.ABC News star Joy Behar caused an uproar on “The View” Thursday when she said President Trump is more hostile than North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un or Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“We have gotten to a point in the world now where we have to rely on the sanity of Kim Jong Un and Putin over the president of the United States,” Behar said when discussing recent tweets sent by Trump that threatened military action against Syria.

“That’s where we’re at,” Behar said before praising a Russian official who condemned diplomacy via Twitter.

Co-host Sunny Hostin chimed in, saying she doesn’t think Trump is able to compartmentalize things “the way a president should,” and therefore gets easily agitated.

“Bill Clinton was famous for being able to compartmentalize,” Behar responded.

Conservative co-host Meghan McCain disagreed, saying there is no way for Trump to win because people would get angry regardless of whether or not he made threats over social media.

“I know it’s like, sort of, funny to laugh at this but we are talking about genocide in Syria,” McCain said, noting that she has an issue with her colleagues invoking a “moral relativism between someone like Kim Jong Un and Putin and President Trump.”

The reliably liberal Behar jumped in, “Do you think Kim Jong Un is less moral than Trump?”

“Oh my God… chemical gassing of children,” McCain fired back. “Last time I checked, America isn’t doing that to anyone.”

Behar then defended the North Korean dictator, saying “Kim Jong Un doesn’t do that. What are you talking about?”

McCain said that while she often disagrees with Trump, anyone who compares him to evil murderous dictators loses all arguments in her eyes.

“What I’m saying is I see the two of them with backing off of war, and I see President Trump provoking war,” Behar fired back.

Behar has mocked Trump on a regular basis since the former real estate mogul joined the political world. She was recently forced to apologize after coming under fire for mocking the Christian faith of Vice President Mike Pence. Her frequent anti-Trump outbursts have even resulted in watchdogs questioning if “The View” should fall under ABC’s news division.All over Houston, homes are being repaired, remodeled and rebuilt in the wake of Hurricane Harvey's devastation last year. But, now more hurricanes loom on the horizon.

Grant Harpold says he’s been working on his house since it was inundated with nearly two feet of water from Hurricane Harvey late last August.

“You can see what’s left of the water outlying from Harvey on the front door” he said, pointing to the door.

He and his family are now considering tearing down the home and rebuilding.

“Maybe it’s time to move on to something bigger and newer or higher and newer,” he told Fox News.

With hurricane season two months away, Harpold isn’t the only one thinking ahead. There are several flood mitigation projects throughout the region in progress at dams, bayous, and reservoirs.

The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, for example, has been working on a $75 million safety construction project at two of the region’s dams since 2016.

“We’re in the process of replacing the outlet structures on the Addicks and Barker Dams, “ said Col. Lars Zetterstrom.

According to USACE’s website, the goal is to eventually “reduce flows to minimize impact to houses on the lower end of the reservoirs.”

In addition, as of April, the Harris County Flood Control District has 39 active construction projects. Some of these projects include widening and deepening bayous, excavating stormwater detention basins, and replacing and modifying bridges.

The projects were already underway before Harvey. However, there are other projects that are in the beginning phases of study or design, including $84 million in Harvey-related repairs. The county has asked their consultants to take a second look at some of those.

“We’ve asked our consultants to say what would happen, how would this project perform if we had a rainfall similar to Harvey?” said Matt Zeve, director of operations at the HCFCD.

It’s a tough question because they acknowledge the county has never seen a storm like Harvey. In some parts of the region, it dropped more than 50 inches of rain.

“There’s no amount of infrastructure that we can put in a reasonable amount of time for a reasonable amount of money to prevent the flooding that occurred in Hurricane Harvey,” Zeve told Fox News.

HCFCD says the best course of action is to simply stay the course: complete existing projects and secure federal funding for future ones.

“White Oak, Hunting, Brays, and Clear Creek are the four projects that we have approved, shovel not just in the ground. But, a cloud of dirt on it, just waiting for funding,” said Harris County Commissioner Jack Cagle.

For businesses and homeowners, like Harpold, preparation means rebuilding—but at higher elevations.

“We’d like to trust that what we’re rebuilding, which will be higher, at least five feet higher than the current structure is good enough,” said Harpold.The headmaster of a Florida Christian school is calling for “prayer for all of the families involved” as one of their teachers is accused of having a sexual relationship with a student.

Suzanne Lea Owen, a 35-year-old high school teacher at the private Evangelical Christian School in Fort Myers, allegedly had a sexual encounter with a male student off-campus in early April, the Lee County Sheriff’s Office said.

"We are deeply saddened and express sincere sympathy to any and all victims of sexual assault," headmaster John Hunte said in a statement to parents and students, announcing that Owen has been fired. "Please be in prayer for all of the families involved."

Owen was arrested Wednesday and police said she had been exchanging text messages with the student in the weeks leading up to the alleged sexual encounter.

"We have and will continue to cooperate with law enforcement during this investigation," Hunte said.

The victim’s age has not been revealed, but Owen has been charged with custodial sexual battery on a victim between 12 and 18 years old, a first-degree felony, according to the Miami Herald.

As of Thursday, she remains in Lee County Jail.Three-time NASCAR champion Tony Stewart has agreed to settle a wrongful death lawsuit brought by the parents of Kevin Ward Jr., a sprint car racer who was hit and killed by Stewart's car during a 2014 race in upstate New York.

Details of the agreement were not announced Thursday at a hearing in federal court before Judge David Hurd. A jury trial had been set to begin May 7.

Hurd said the case would be dismissed once procedures regarding the estate of the victim were finalized. Stewart declined comment afterward, as did the Wards.

Ward, 20, was killed Aug. 9, 2014, during a sprint car race on dirt at Canandaigua Motorsports Park.

Ward spun and crashed after contact with Stewart's car. He climbed out of the open-wheel car while the race was under caution and began walking down the dimly lit track in an apparent attempt to confront Stewart. One car appeared to swerve to avoid Ward, but he was struck by the back right tire of Stewart's car and died of blunt force trauma.

A grand jury heard testimony from more than two dozen witnesses, including accident reconstruction experts and drivers, and looked at photographs and video of the race. They declined to bring criminal charges against Stewart.

Authorities also determined that Ward was under the influence of marijuana the night he died and the levels were enough to impair judgment.

Ward's family said Stewart caused the fatal collision by improperly maneuvering toward the young driver after the race was placed under caution. Hurd ruled in December that the Ward family could move ahead with their claims against Stewart. Hurd concluded it was inappropriate at that stage of the case to draw factual conclusions from competing evidence in Ward's death, dismissed Stewart's counterclaim and said the case was best left to a jury.

The 46-year-old Stewart spent three weeks in seclusion at his Indiana home after Ward's death and described those weeks as the darkest of his life. He was emotionally drained when he returned to Cup competition and retired after the 2016 season to focus on his NASCAR racing team, which he co-owns with Gene Haas.

Stewart won Cup championships in 2002, 2005 and 2011 and an IndyCar title in 1997. He won two Brickyard 400s at Indianapolis Motor Speedway in his home state.

Stewart has 48 Cup victories and is a lock for NASCAR's Hall of Fame. Nicknamed "Smoke," he was one of the most proficient drivers in racing, winning in every kind of series, from sprint cars to a dominant stretch in NASCAR where he reeled off at least one win in 15 straight seasons.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

"Jersey Shore" fans were shaking with excitement when their favorite cast of "hot messes" returned to MTV after a five-year hiatus. But the return of one infamous object during the "Jersey Shore Family Vacation" season premiere had "Shore" supporters scratching their heads.

Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi paid a visit to the original Shore House in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, in the first episode to retrieve a beloved -- and, at times, despised -- item from "Jersey Shore" history: the duck phone.

"Let's be real, there is no Jersey Shore without the duck phone. 🤷‍♀️#JSFamilyVacation," MTV's official "Jersey Shore" account live-tweeted as the first episode aired on April 5.

"Do you remember our times together?" Snooki whispered to the duck phone as she picked it up off the table and packed it in her bag.

'JERSEY SHORE' STAR RONNIE REVEALS WHY HE AND SAMMI 'SWEETHEART' BROKE UP

"Jersey Shore" fanatics were thrilled that the phone Snooki could never figure out was back, though some had to admit they were confused.

"Didn't the duck phone break in the last ep of Jersey Shore? How is it still there? #JerseyShoreFamilyVacation," one Twitter user asked, referring to the finale of season 6.

Life and Style Magazine was first to point out the show's "blatantly obvious continuity error," recalling that Sorrentino smashed the phone "to pieces" in 2012 after a fight with now ex-girlfriend Paula Pickard.

"The brunette beauty made a cake for her on-again, off-again lover during Season 6, only to later reveal a photo of someone's ... er ... private area sitting right on top of it," the magazine explained. "When Sitch called Paula to confront her, she pretended she couldn't hear him on the phone — hence chucking the poor duckling across the room and smashing it to pieces."

'JERSEY SHORE' STAR NICOLE 'SNOOKI' POLIZZI REVEALS HOW MUCH SHE EARNED DURING SEASON 1 OF THE MTV SERIES

Entertainment site Uproxx memorialized the duck phone in a 2012 post, "saluting the duck and its years on the show — 2009-2012. R.I.P., duck phone, R.I.P."

"It’s an impostor! Mike killed the old one..." - Twitter user

But somehow, the phone reappared for the 2018 show like nothing happened.

"And just like that the duck phone returns #jsfamilyvacation," Jenni “JWoww” Farley posted without explanation.

"But was he revived?! Didn't Mike bust him to pieces! Lol," one Twitter user replied.

"It’s an impostor! Mike killed the old one after the ball cake!" another added.

So far, the mystery continues -- but in the mean time, fans will continue celebrating the famous bird's "quacktastic" return.

"Jersey Shore Family Vacation" returned to MTV on April 5 and airs Thursdays at 8 p.m. ET.A trailer full of thousands of dead or nearly dead chickens was found abandoned in an Arkansas neighborhood, local authorities said Wednesday.

Roughly 3,000 chickens were left to die inside the trailer, which was located in a secluded part of a Pine Bluff neighborhood, Jefferson County Sheriff’s Major Lafayette Woods told Fox News on Thursday.

Woods said this is one of the worst cases of animal cruelty he’s ever seen. “It’s inhumane,” he added.

An unnamed man called the Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office after seeing someone abandon the trailer Tuesday evening.

Authorities have identified the driver of the trailer and said the birds came from Summit Poultry Inc., located in Pine Bluff. Officials believe the chickens were sent to Oklahoma to be euthanized before they were brought back to Pine Bluff and found in the neighborhood. It's not currently clear why the birds were sent out-of-state.

“We’re still trying to find out why the chickens were left in the neighborhood,” Woods said, adding that whoever left the trailer "chose the location for coverage and concealment."

Since some of the chickens were still alive when the trailer was found -- those responsible could face animal cruelty charges.

More specifically, they could face a misdemeanor charge that could result in jail time and a $1,000 fine, Woods told Fox 16. He’s also researching potential federal charges that could be brought against the culprit.

Local investigators are working with the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to prosecute anyone responsible. According to Woods, the USDA was made aware of the trailer before Jefferson County Sheriff’s Office contacted the organization about the chickens. A representative with USDA was not available for comment when contacted by Fox News on Thursday.

"This is probably the most inhumane way I’ve seen poultry or chicken processed,” Woods told Fox16.

Summit Poultry Inc. could not be reached for comment when contacted by Fox News.Red Alabama is the best state for the firearms industry when it comes to factors such as jobs and gun culture, while blue Rhode Island is the worst, according to the jobs website Zippia.

The rankings reflect the sharp regional and political divide in the country on guns.

“A general rule of thumb emerged from the data — head south if you are looking to get one of as many as 141,500 jobs generated by companies that make, distribute, and sell guns,” the website said. The advice to head south also pertained to another 159,623 jobs in ancillary industries such as gun component suppliers.

But another “rule of thumb” is also apparent: If you want a job in the gun industry, head into Trump country. Each of the study’s top ten states - Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Arizona, Florida, Indiana, Alaska, Missouri, and Louisiana - went for President Trump in the 2016 presidential election, most of them decisively. Of the ten worst states for the industry - Rhode Island, New Jersey, Vermont, Washington, New York Wisconsin, North Dakota, Maine, Nebraska and Massachusetts – Hillary Clinton won seven.

“There’s a very strong correlation between people being conservative or liberal and what their views are on guns,” said Dr. John R. Lott Jr., one of the nation’s leading experts on guns and crime.

All but one of the top ten states for gun manufacturers also were ranked in the top half of the libertarian CATO Institute’s “Freedom in the States” list, which surveys state fiscal and regulatory policies and issues related to personal freedom. A common refrain among gun rights supporters is that you need the Second Amendment to protect the First.

The Zippia study reflected deeper societal trends because it didn’t only look at the number of firearms jobs and manufacturers in a state, although these were the most important measures. It also analyzed whether there was a “positive” environment for gun producers as determined by measures like the number of state laws related to guns and the gun “culture” of a state - including the percentage of people who own firearms.

The differences between states become clear when comparing two of the largest, Florida, which ranked sixth-best on the list, and fifth-worst New York. Florida, for its population of 21 million, had just 21 gun laws on the books as of 2017, according to the study, although it enacted a few new regulations this year in response to the school shootings in Parkland, Florida.

New York, for its nearly 20 million residents, had 75 state gun laws.

Despite their similar populations, Florida in 2017 had 7,157 people working directly in the firearms industry, while only 4,156 people were employed by the industry in New York, according to a report by the National Shooting Sports Foundation.

Alabama, the top state for the firearms industry, had just ten gun laws on the books in 2017 and 3,222 people working in the firearms industry, just under a thousand less than New York, which is far more populous.

One surprising finding: California, at #14 on the industry-friendly list, ranked just ahead of #16 Texas, where many residents pride themselves on the state’s gun culture.

“While California has higher regulations on ownership and lower gun ownership rates, it is actually very friendly to manufacturers both in terms of jobs per capita, total jobs, and industry taxes,” said Zippa’s Drew Walters.

Perhaps that will change. Lott noted that “inertia” may come to play in some of the Zippa’s rankings, since gun businesses may be loath to pick up and absorb the costs of moving even after the environment worsens for them. “A state may have a number of jobs related to the gun industry, but it may be because they made investments 100 years ago, or 50 years ago,” Lott said. “Things may have to get pretty bad before it pays for them to give up all that investment.”

Liberal, government regulation-heavy California is hardly the Wild West anymore. In 1993, California had just 57 gun laws on the books, according to Zippa. By 2017, it had 106. Over the same period, Texas went from 12 gun laws to 18.

Keith Koffler is the editor of the website White House Dossier.Is the Rapture finally here? One Christian numerologist says a biblical sign strongly suggests it.

David Meade tells the U.K.'s Daily Express newspaper that on April 23, the sun and moon will be in Virgo, as will Jupiter, which represents the Messiah.

For a certain branch of evangelical Christianity, Revelation 12:1–2 describes the beginning of what is known as the Rapture and the second coming of Christ.

The passage reads: “And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of 12 stars. She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth.”

In the passage, the woman is represented as Virgo.

According to Meade, the alignment represents “the Lion of the tribe of Judah,” marking the Rapture, the belief that Christ will bring the faithful into paradise prior to a period of tribulation on earth that precedes the end of time.

Meade said he believes the so-called Planet X, which is also known as Nibiru, will appear above the sky on the April date, causing volcanic eruptions, tsunamis and earthquakes.

NASA repeatedly has said Planet X is a hoax.

Speaking to the Express, Meade described it as “a unique once-in-a-century sign exactly as depicted in the 12th chapter of Revelation. This is our time marker.”

However, author Jonathan Sarfati remains skeptical.

He told the Express: “As usual with any astrology (or Christian adaptations of it), one cherry-picks the stars that fit the desired conclusion.

“There is nothing to suggest that April 23 is a momentous date for biblical prophecy, and Christians need to be careful about being drawn into such sensationalist claims.

“We won’t know the day or the hour — so we should be prepared at all times!”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Khloe Kardashian, of “Keeping Up With The Kardashians” fame, had a baby Thursday morning, a girl whose name has not yet been announced. A few days ago, her boyfriend, and father of her child, Cleveland Cavaliers player Tristan Thompson was photographed canoodling with another woman at a club in New York and entering his hotel twice with her for hours at a time.

No matter what people think of the Kardashians as a brand or as characters on a TV show, the family has always been very tight-knit and supportive of each other, and her family has rallied to her side in Cleveland during her final days of pregnancy.

Khloe has suffered cheating scandals before, with her husband basketball player Lamar Odom and other boyfriends. But this infidelity, done so publicly just days before her baby is born, has her fans, and even her longtime foes like Amber Rose, rallying to her side.

Thompson was booed at a Cavaliers game in Cleveland last night when his face was on the Jumbotron. Usually a favorite player, his disgusting behavior is not sitting well with his fans.

Don’t take him back, Khloe, at least not right now. A man who cheats so openly in the days before his child’s birth is not a man to be trusted and this is not a time to have someone like that around you.

Advice Khloe is getting right now centers on her not dating basketball players in the future. But the fact is that plenty of ball players are faithful and plenty of “regular guys” aren’t. Your career choice or your bank account number doesn’t align with your morality.

But all of that is beside the point right now. What Khloe needs to do is focus on her baby and herself right now.

c: Don’t take him back, Khloe, at least not right now. A man who cheats so openly in the days before his child’s birth is not a man to be trusted and this is not a time to have someone like that around you.

You need love and support in your orbit right now. The period right after a baby’s birth, especially your first, is a hazy, emotional time full of love and sleeplessness. The baby is the priority, the guy who behaved atrociously at a time when you needed him most has to be moved to the back burner.

It’s difficult to do that, of course, when the paparazzi will be hounding you both but you need to set the boundaries and you need to keep them. Don’t deny him his child but he does not get to have you, or the cozy family unit you had in mind.

You deserve better, Khloe, any woman deserves better. Thompson’s blatant behavior might be a cry for help but that’s someone else’s problem right now. The only cry you need to be answering is your baby’s.

Good luck.No wonder disgraced former FBI Director James Comey was so bad at running the bureau: He can't tell a mob boss from a duly elected leader of the free world.

Comey showed his confusion in his first stop on the tour to promote his new book: A sit-down with Clinton sycophant-turned ABC so-called news journalist George Stephanopoulos. It hasn’t aired, but a promo they are breathlessly running tells you all you need to know.

“How strange is it for you to sit here and compare the president to a mob boss?” Stephanopoulos asks a stone-faced Comey, who you may remember admitted leaking FBI documents long after he purposely botched the probe of Hillary Clinton’s illegal email server.

“Are there things that you know but haven't said that could damage President Trump?” Stephanopoulos asks.

“Was President Trump obstructing justice? Should Donald Trump be impeached?” he continues.

Since Comey can’t distinguish between homicidal criminals and a politician he disagrees with, it is worth reminding him what an actual mob boss looks like.

Hard questions between a couple of guys who hate President Trump. But ‘mob boss?’ Of all people, shouldn’t the former head of the FBI - the person responsible for taking down actual deadly criminal gangs - know better to make an outrageous comparison like that?

Since Comey can’t distinguish between homicidal criminals and a politician he disagrees with, it is worth reminding him what an actual mob boss looks like. Al Capone plagued society with illicit gambling, prostitution, tax evasion and an untold number of murders. Lucky Luciano was responsible for widespread extortion, prostitution rings, bootlegging and murder. John Gotti was convicted of 13 murders, and also profited from racketeering, tax evasion and gambling.

What does Donald Trump have to do with any of them? If Comey is really looking for mobsters at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., he missed one - the Clinton crime family.

Bill Clinton was accused of severe sexual misconduct, harassment and even rape by Juanita Broaddrick. We know he lied under oath and we know he paid Paula Jones. We know he was impeached. Hillary Clinton surely committed crimes, and would have been charged if we had equal justice under the law. She mishandled national secrets on that illicit private server, obstructed justice and destroyed evidence.

The Clinton crime family included numerous associates – Cheryl Mills, the Hillary consigliere to whom Comey granted immunity in exchange for nothing. Huma Abedin, her underboss, who also mishandled national secrets, even handing them over to her pervert husband, former Democratic congressman Anthony Weiner.

There’s sketchy Terry McAuliffe, the former governor of Virginia. He directed his political action committee to donate hundreds of thousands of dollars to the state senate campaign of Jill McCabe, the wife of, then-Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe. Fortunately for Americans, McCabe is now off the federal payroll. But when McAuliffe was bankrolling his wife’s failed campaign, he was supposed to be investigating Hillary.

Loretta Lynch qualifies as a made member of the Clinton Crime Family, too. The former attorney general had a secret meeting on an airport tarmac with Bill Clinton in Phoenix just days before Comey cleared Clinton. One wonders what kind of order Bill issued as Lynch kissed his ring.

The Clinton Crime Family includes enforcers, like Sid 'Vicious' Blumenthal, who shopped the bogus anti-Trump dossier around to spark a phony investigation. And Debbie Wasserman Schultz, who helped rig the primary for Hillary Clinton while she ran the Democratic National Committee.

Comey, who was at best oblivious to the Clinton Crime Family as it ran wild in Washington, has operated a bit like a gangland don himself, if we’re allowed to use the same license he does. During his tenure at the FBI, he agreed to Lynch’s order to soft-pedal the Clinton email investigation by calling it a “matter.” He and Trump-hating FBI agent Peter Strzok wrote an exoneration of Clinton in May, months before they even interviewed her or other witnesses for their investigation. In the parlance of La Cosa Nostra, they fixed the case.

We also know Comey signed off on multiple FISA warrants to spy on a Trump campaign associate. To do that, he worked with loyal soldiers Rod Rosenstein, Sally Yates and others.

Since James Comey is so loose with his mafia analogies, let me make him an offer he shouldn’t be able to refuse: Come on my show to promote your book. I'll ask tough, but fair questions to which the American people deserve answers.

With apologies to Don Corleone, come on my show, Jim. Act like a man!

Adapted from Sean Hannity's monologue on "Hannity," April 11, 2018In the midst of worrying about North Korea, Syria and Democrats taking control of the House of Representatives this fall, President Donald Trump is now worrying about a government assault on his own business, which targeted his own lawyer.

Michael Cohen has been the personal lawyer for Trump and for the Trump Organization -- the umbrella corporation through which Trump owns or manages nearly all entities that bear his name -- for many years. Cohen is so closely connected to the Trump Organization that one of his two law offices is located on the 26th floor of Trump Tower, just a few doors from the corner office formerly occupied by Trump himself.

On Monday, shortly before dawn, a team of FBI agents bearing a search warrant from a federal judge broke in to the offices of the Trump Organization and removed computers, files, tax returns and telephones from Cohen’s office. At about the same time, three other teams of FBI agents performed raids. One was at another of Cohen’s offices a few blocks away, and his vacant New York City apartment and hotel rooms he had been occupying were searched, too; and agents also seized personal and professional files and equipment from those venues.

Did the FBI lawfully break in to the headquarters of the president’s family business and cart away files and equipment from his lawyer, as well as legal and financial files of the president himself? The short answer is: yes.

Here is the back story.

In October 2016, when the federal government began its investigation of alleged attempts by the Russian government to interfere with the 2016 presidential election, then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch managed the work.

After Trump became president and Jeff Sessions became attorney general and Sessions recused himself from this investigation, the No. 2 person in the Department of Justice appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special counsel in charge of the Russia investigation. The investigation in Washington is 18 months old and has been run by Mueller for about 11 months.

If a criminal investigation stumbles upon evidence of crimes substantially removed by geography or subject matter from the location and principal responsibilities of the investigation, it is the prosecutors’ duty either to prosecute those crimes if feasible or to pass whatever evidence has been found on to another prosecutor closer to the place of the alleged crime.

Sometimes, keeping that evidence is a temptation too great to resist. That’s because one of the techniques that prosecutors in America use to gather evidence about a crime is to indict those at the fringes of the behavior they are investigating and then attempt, by coercion and bribery, to turn those indicted individuals into cooperating witnesses. Sometimes the indicted crime is truly at the fringes, both rationally and geographically. But the targets of these fringe prosecutions are rarely attorneys who are representing a person who is a subject of the investigation.

Until now.

Though Cohen does not represent Trump in the Mueller investigation, he does represent him in nearly all other legal matters, and his files contain a treasure-trove of confidential and financial materials from and about Trump. Judges are very reluctant to sign search warrants authorizing the seizure of legal files, with two exceptions.

The first is the so-called crime/fraud exception. Under this rule, if the client is using his confidential communications with his lawyer to further an ongoing crime, fraud or tort, the communications are not privileged, and evidence of them may be seized.

The other exception is the independent criminal activity of the lawyer. That appears to be the case here. It seems that Cohen -- who claims he borrowed $130,000 from a bank to pay an adult-film actress to remain silent about her relationship to Trump, which Trump denies was sexual -- did not tell the bank from which he borrowed the funds the true purpose of the loan.

If so, that may be evidence of bank fraud on Cohen’s part. If he wired those funds over interstate lines, that is evidence of wire fraud. If he used the U.S. Postal Service to facilitate a material part of the deal with the actress, that would be considered mail fraud. Each of these fraud charges carries a prison term of five years.

When FBI agents arrive for a raid, they rarely take the time to examine fully all the documents they have seized -- even if the documents are protected by the attorney-client privilege and even if the client is the president of the United States. Needless to say, there are safeguards in place to prevent the prosecutors who dispatched the agents from viewing the privileged materials.

When Mueller in Washington came upon evidence of Cohen’s bank fraud in Manhattan, he passed it along to the U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan. That office -- not Mueller -- examined the evidence and obtained the search warrants for Cohen’s personal and professional premises, authorized the raids of those premises and received the fruits of the raids.

What will become of Cohen? Federal prosecutors in Manhattan will now decide whether to ask a grand jury to indict him on the fraud charges, and if he is indicted, Mueller will enter the picture looking to make a deal.

Trump’s lawyer was Mueller’s bait.

All of this has understandably infuriated Trump. His rights as a client were violated. His attorney of many years and on many matters will soon be a defendant. Can Trump restrain himself from offering to pardon those who could harm him or firing those who are tormenting him or waging war against real or imagined enemies? Will his anger, frustration and disgust at the violation of his financial and personal privacy push him and America into what even congressional Republicans fear would be a constitutional crisis?

The potential failure of self-restraint is the real threat he now faces.Members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee got their turn Wednesday to grill Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, as several asked about charges that the social media site suppresses conservative voices.

But Zuckerberg’s testimony did nothing to convince conservatives or anyone interested in fairness that he was sincere in his desire to root out anti-conservative bias.

Censorship questions focused on the outspoken, pro-Trump duo, Diamond and Silk, who Facebook recently labeled “unsafe to the community.” With 1.4 million followers on their Facebook page, it’s more likely that Facebook finds the outspoken activists to be a threat to liberals than unsafe to the “community.”

Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, pressed Zuckerberg about why holding conservative views is unsafe. Zuckerberg continued his grandstanding from his Tuesday testimony before two Senate committees about the importance of free speech and said: “In that specific case, our team made an enforcement error. And we have already gotten in touch with them to reverse it.”

Interestingly, Diamond and Silk have repeatedly denied ever hearing from Facebook. Perhaps Zuckerberg is confused?

Rep. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn., also addressed Diamond and Silk, saying that while Facebook uses algorithms to identify terrorists, the duo “are not terrorists.”

Zuckerberg was asked by Rep. Steve Scalise, R-La., if there were any disciplinary actions taken against whoever on his team was responsible for suppressing Diamond and Silk’s Facebook presence. Zuckerberg said he couldn’t answer that question because he’s been busy getting ready to testify before Congress.

Apparently, nobody thought the head of a multibillion-dollar company that provides news to many millions of people around the world would be asked questions about censorship during a congressional hearing. So why bother with details?

What’s becoming more and more apparent is that there’s a lot Zuckerberg doesn’t seem to know about his own company.

Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, also pulled no punches when he unapologetically confronted Zuckerberg during Tuesday’s Senate hearing. Cruz also focused on censorship of conservative voices on Facebook.

The lawyer in Cruz came out and the cross-examination was a sight to behold. Cruz forced Zuckerberg to answer questions that many were hoping he would be forced to face. They weren’t disappointed.

Zuckerberg had nowhere to pivot and his explanation was perfectly rehearsed and weak at best; and so inconceivable that it was insulting at worst.

Referencing a Gizmodo report from 2016, Cruz ticked off a laundry list of examples in which conservatives have been censored on Facebook, including: blocking a Chick-fil-A Appreciation Day page; suppressing posts from Catholic pages; blocking a Fox News reporter: and blocking posts relating to former Massachusetts Republican Gov. Mitt Romney, political commentator Glenn Beck, and the Conservative Political Action Conference.

Also included in Cruz’s list of examples were censored posts about the Internal Revenue Service scandal that targeted conservatives, and the labeling of Diamond and Silk’s page as “unsafe to the community.”

When asked if he knew if any posts by Planned Parenthood, MoveOn.org or Democrat candidates were removed, Zuckerberg wouldn’t give a straight answer, saying he wasn’t “specifically aware.”

Translation: No.

Zuckerberg responded to the many examples of conservative censorship by saying: “I understand where that concern is coming from, because Facebook and the tech industry are located in Silicon Valley, which is an extremely left-leaning place. This is actually a concern that I have and that I try to root out in the company, is making sure that we don’t have any bias in the work that we do.”

Cruz just finished obliterating Zuckerberg with facts in the form of a string of examples of censorship of conservatives, many of them high profile people or organizations. And Zuckerberg said he tries to root out the bias in the company?

Who’s driving this ship? This man supposedly runs the company – at least that’s what we’re told.

One of two things is going on. Either Zuckerberg is not really in charge and just acts as the “face” of Facebook, or he thinks we’re all just really dumb. Who’s to say conservative views won’t end up being targeted – and removed – as hate speech on Facebook? Zuckerberg certainly didn’t.

In fact, while Zuckerberg testified that hate speech will likely be able to be removed from Facebook before it’s posted within the next 5 to 10 years, when Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb., asked him to actually define hate speech the founder of Facebook couldn’t do so.

“I think this is a really hard question,” he said, conceding that even now it’s impossible for him to define what speech Facebook will ban and what it will permit.

It’s no secret that conservatives are targets. Hollywood mocks us, the mainstream media thinks we’re enemy No. 1, and former candidates for office insult us because we didn’t vote for them. That’s just become a lot of noise at this point. Same players, same song, different day.

However, what Facebook is doing is far more dangerous. When you censor speech and silence voices to fit a political narrative, freedoms get stripped away. If Facebook does it and gets away with it, others will follow.

In the short term, Facebook will likely tread carefully in dealing with conservatives because the company is under the microscope of Congress right now. However, when the current furor over Facebook’s actions dies down, will the company go back to business as usual?When Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testified before a Senate Judiciary Committee and Commerce Committee joint hearing Tuesday, I asked a relatively simple question: does Facebook consider itself a neutral public forum?

Zuckerberg said that Facebook is a “platform for all ideas,” but declined to give a “yes” or “no” answer. The problem is, this is not merely an academic distinction between words. Facebook’s answer to the question could affect millions of users, and attract (or prevent) a lot of attention from federal regulators.

Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act (CDA) states: "No provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content provider."

This is a good provision. It means that, for example, if you run a blogging platform and someone posts a terrorist threat in the comments section, you’re not treated as the person making the threat. Without Section 230, many social media networks could be functionally unable to operate.

In order to be protected by Section 230, companies like Facebook should be “neutral public forums.” On the flip side, they should be considered to be a “publisher or speaker” of user content if they pick and choose what gets published or spoken.

As I expressed to Mark Zuckerberg, as a private business Facebook has a clear First Amendment right to publish whatever it wants on its website within the bounds of the law. The company can support political causes and oppose ones it disagrees with, just like a private citizen can speak his or her mind or agitate against opposing views.

But if Facebook is busy censoring legal, protected speech for political reasons, the company should be held accountable for the posts it lets through. And it should not enjoy any special congressional immunity from liability for its actions.

As we discussed at the Senate hearing, for years it has been evident that Facebook has actively censored or suppressed conservative speech.

In May 2016, Gizmodo reported that Facebook had purposely and routinely suppressed conservative stories from trending news, including stories about the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), Mitt Romney and Obama administration scandals.

Facebook’s actions have ranged from seemingly petty things – like shutting down a “Chick-Fil-A Appreciation Day” to blocking posts from journalists, specific religious groups and most recently, grassroots Trump supporters Diamond and Silk.

Facebook’s explanation for limiting access to a popular page with 1.3 million Facebook followers was that it was “unsafe to the community.” Many Americans see this as just the latest poor excuse in a pervasive pattern of political bias.

While such stories abound, it is virtually unheard of to see any ads or pages from liberal groups like Planned Parenthood, Moveon.org, or Democratic candidates being targeted for removal.

Whether you call it targeting, censorship, or shadow-banning, these are not the actions of a “neutral public forum.”

Zuckerberg told the Senate hearing that his goal is “not to engage in political speech.” But if a company allows a politically biased corporate culture to persist – and deliberately avoids diversity of thought in its hires – its actions can very quickly escalate into the political realm and endanger its status as a true “platform for all ideas.”

According to Zuckerberg, Facebook employs over 15,000 people in security and content review. If all or virtually all are left-wing Democrats – and if they are empowered to secretly silence the voices of all with whom they disagree – that poses profound threats to our democratic discourse.

Newspaper publisher William Randolph Hearst, at the height of yellow journalism, never possessed such unchecked power over free speech.

Zuckerberg proved a good sport for responding to reams of questions from 43 senators for five hours. I commend him for admitting that Silicon Valley “is an extremely left-leaning place” and committing to “making sure that we don’t have any bias in the work that we do.”

It is critical that Facebook and other tech platforms take these realizations to heart, because surrendering their status as neutral public forum – engaging in discrimination of political viewpoints – invites government oversight and regulation of social media. This is something that nobody wants and it invites revoking the company’s immunity from liability.

The free exchange of ideas and information on the Internet over the last 25 years has produced a cultural, technological and educational revolution to rival the Wright brothers or nuclear energy. Our largest forums for that continuing exchange should do all they can to keep it a free one, unburdened by censorship or government intrusion.The poor legacy media. Donald Trump has been president for 15 months, and they’re still slathered in crazy sauce, desperately trying to prove that something went wrong, that none of this can be true.

The new insults come from Politico with the all the drama of a “Special Report” breathlessly announcing that the lack of — wait for it — subscriptions to newspapers and the death of local news is why President Trump won. The premise itself is false and is already being mocked and challenged.

In this case, Politico reviewed print newspaper subscription data and, “The results show a clear correlation between low [newspaper] subscription rates and Trump’s success in the 2016 election, both against Hillary Clinton and when compared to [Mitt] Romney in 2012 … That gives new force to the widely voiced concerns of news-industry professionals and academicians about Trump’s ability to make bold assertions about crime rates, unemployment and other verifiable facts without any independent checks.”

On its face, this is absurd, but “news industry professionals and academicians” have been triggered, compelling Politico to assume correlation implies causality. The overwrought effort declared Candidate Trump avoided mainstream outlets and as a result thrived because, “Voters in so-called news deserts — places with minimal newspaper subscriptions, print or online — went for him in higher-than-expected numbers.”

The Neiman Journalism Lab at Harvard, which describes itself “an attempt to help journalism figure out its future in an Internet age,” also took serious issue with almost every aspect of the Politico report. In an analysis titled, “The Politico article on ‘news deserts’ doesn’t really show what it claims to show,” they noted, “It is just ahistorical to say Trump’s campaign ‘succeeded in avoiding mainstream outlets.’ Candidate Trump gave tons of interviews throughout the primaries! And when he scaled those back in the general, one of his strategic shifts was shifting from national to local media! Whatever perfectly legitimate criticisms you want to make about how the media covered Trump, to say Trump“avoided” coverage in mainstream outlets is just … wrong.”

We do know that newspaper subscription rates have declined, but the claim that areas without subscriptions to hardcopy newspaper are “news deserts” is absurd. One of the reason hardcopy subscription rates are down is because of the Internet making that information freely accessible. This is, indeed, an issue for every print entity, not just news-based.

The Internet also has, in fact, brought more news and information to Americans who normally wouldn’t have access to a wide variety of information. But Politico’s claim of a news desert is based in the argument that only a select few legacy news outlets, which also provided columnists and news stories to local newspapers, are real, actual news.

“In the days before the Internet, about a dozen news outlets dominated national political coverage. They included the major television networks, weekly news magazines, The Associated Press, and about a half-dozen newspapers. Wire services such as The New York Times News Service and The Washington Post-Los Angeles Times service sent out their articles to smaller papers across the country, guaranteeing vastly wider circulation for their stories,” swooned Politico. “Top columnists and political writers would therefore appear in hundreds of newspapers, reaching tens of millions of homes. The families in those homes might have had little awareness of where the articles originated, but were reassured by knowing that trusted local editors had chosen those pieces for publication.”

You are reading this column either in The Washington Times newspaper, or on its website, where all its articles and columns are free and available to everyone, no matter where you live or economic status. The fact that “unapproved,” i.e. not liberal, commentary and perspective is generally accessible, is what this latest lamentation by the media establishment is all about.

For them, more information is the problem. Hoping to malign any non-conforming news source, the Politico report goes so far as to pretend anything that’s not within the pre-approved cabal doesn’t even exist.

Many in the establishment are growing even more resentful of the fact that they do not control the information you receive. Outlets like this newspaper, its online accessibility, and other online news sources like FoxNews.com, have broken the monopoly on news.

In the 1990s, the Drudge Report became the harbinger of the power of the Internet to resurrect news deemed unworthy by the establishment when Matt Drudge brought to light the Monica Lewinsky/Bill Clinton story, which Newsweek decided to spike.

Moreover, this report is a classic example of confirmation bias — seeing what you want to see because you expect to see it. Science Daily describes it as, “a type of cognitive bias and represents an error of inductive inference toward confirmation of the hypothesis under study.”

Establishment media remains desperate to prove Mr. Trump’s election was some sort of horrible mistake, so why not attach that to a theory that includes an underlying condemnation of the internet?

The internet hasn’t killed legacy media, it simply makes them more immediately accountable, which is the major driver of their undoing.

This column originally appeared in The Washington Times.Thursday is Holocaust Remembrance Day – Yom HaShoah in Hebrew. Each year we at the International Fellowship of Christians and Jews take this opportunity not only to pause and memorialize the 6 million Jews murdered by the Nazis, but also to turn commemoration into action.

We bring food, medical care and other support to more than 110,000 impoverished Holocaust survivors and elderly Jews across the former Soviet Union, and to tens of thousands more survivors in Israel. And we urge others to help us reach other aging, struggling survivors around the world.

With 40 survivors dying daily worldwide, we’re racing against the clock to ensure that all poor survivors can live their final days in dignity, without being forced to decide each day between eating or paying for life-saving medicine or between electricity and home care.

Yet Yom HaShoah this year seems markedly different. While we have seen radical nationalism and xenophobia make inroads across Europe for years, most decent-minded people everywhere have condemned such extremism, along with the rise of violence against Jews, Muslims and other minorities.

This year, though, we are seeing a new normalization and acceptability of anti-Semitism – or at least a new permissiveness, where outright anti-Semitism is poisoning the public sphere. It’s surely no coincidence that at the same time, fewer and fewer Holocaust survivors are still alive to speak out against this re-emerging evil, thereby emboldening the haters to re-emerge.

In llinois’ 3rd Congressional District, near where our U.S. office is based, a onetime figure from the lunatic fringe, Holocaust denier and former American Nazi Party member Arthur Jones, 70, is running unopposed as the Republican candidate in a district that is historically so Democratic that no legitimate Republican bothered to run.

To its credit, the Illinois Republican Party is opposing Jones. State Republican Party Chairman Tim Schneider said: “Arthur Jones is not a real Republican – he is a Nazi whose disgusting bigoted views have no place in our nation’s discourse.”

At the same time, the legislature in Poland supported a new law that went into effect in early March making it illegal to say that Poland or Poles were in any way “responsible or co-responsible” for the Holocaust. Israel has officially protested the move, and many have denounced it as an attempt to whitewash history – the fact that 3 million Polish Jews (and another 3 million Polish non-Jews) were murdered in six death camps on German-occupied Polish soil.

While Poland’s president and others have denied the charge of whitewashing, this new law has given way to rank anti-Semitic rhetoric.

A leading TV commentator called Jews “kikes” on Twitter, later deleting the post. The director of a state-run TV station said, on-air, that Nazi death camps should actually be called “Jewish” because “who managed the crematoria there?” The Associated Press reported.

Polish journalist Bogdan Zalewski declared on Facebook: “Poles, we are at war! We are at war with the Jews! Not for the first time in our history.”

All of this underscores the sense that we are entering a new era of open anti-Semitism, where it is not just camouflaged in the guise of anti-Zionism, but one in which heads of state, elected officials, media and political candidates frame the parameters of public dialogue, and hate speech against Jews is normalized.

Sadly, as history has shown us, this is just the first step in what often leads to something much worse.

This Holocaust Remembrance Day, as we continue to deliver life-saving assistance to needy aging survivors as part of our mission to act and remember, we do so with the bitter knowledge that fewer and fewer survivors are here today to speak out against this revived anti-Semitism. The newly vocal anti-Semites are freed to spew their poison.

And on Holocaust Remembrance Day this year, we ought to move from commemorating to acting: speaking out, advocating, organizing, and helping the few survivors remaining with us today, many of whom are still struggling to survive. Their survival is a blatant reminder to the world of what happens when hate speech goes unchallenged and when apathy becomes the norm.An Instagram model who underwent a controversial procedure to change the color of her eyes says she now has the sight of a 90-year-old after it went wrong.

Nadinne Bruna, 32, lost 80 percent of her vision in her right eye and 50 percent in her left eye after opting for surgery to insert silicone implants to change their color.

The procedure is not approved in the U.S., so Bruna flew to Bogota, Colombia, in the hope of changing her hazel eyes to a light grey color.

The Argentinian model, who lives in Miami, Florida, underwent the procedure along with laser eye surgery in September 2016, but immediately began experiencing serious problems.

Bruna claims her vision was constantly blurry as a result of the pressure placed on her optic nerve by the implant and her eyes were red, painful for months.

She returned to Colombia in March and June 2017 for two further procedures to attempt to repair the damage but was forced to seek medical attention at Bascom Palmer Eye Institute in Miami.

AUTHORITIES EYE RAT POISON AS FAKE POT KILLS 3, LEAVES OTHERS BLEEDING FROM EYES, EARS

Ophthalmologist Dr. Ranya Habash led a team of medics to remove the dangerous implants in September, and Bruna underwent emergency sight-saving surgery to treat glaucoma in November.

As a result, the model has lost 80 percent of vision in her right eye and 50 percent in her left eye, and will have to deal with the consequences of the surgery for the rest of her life.

Plastic surgery-loving Bruna and her twin sister Danna have forged a career on Instagram, where they share images of the cosmetic procedures they have undergone.

The twins regularly have their surgeries compensated and are often paid to feature medical practices on their accounts which have more than 1 million combined followers.

Bruna said she paid a discounted fee of $3,000 to undergo the procedures with Dr. Eugenio Carbera in return for a post on her social media account and a testimonial video.

“Because of my Instagram following, I usually approach surgeons about collaborations and advertising,” Bruna said. "I got in touch with them to see if they would be interested in working together. I decided to get in touch with a Colombian doctor - it’s just three hours from Miami where I live.

“Before this surgery my eyes were completely healthy. They were in really good condition,” she said. “I was so naïve. Ever since this surgery I have had blurry vision. For about a year my eyes were constantly red and itchy. My pupils, they can’t adjust to light anymore so I’m very photosensitive now too.”

Bruna said the surgery completely ruined her life.

BOY WHO IS ALLERGIC TO SUN CAN'T GO OUTSIDE WITHOUT THICK PLASTIC VISOR

“In September I was forced to go to hospital in Miami where the doctors said they had to remove the implants to save my sight because of chronic inflammation,” she said. "In November I had emergency glaucoma surgery in both eyes. My vision damage is permanent, and I still have to have a cornea transplant and I have cataracts too.”

Dr. Ranya Habash, assistant professor of ophthalmology in Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, said procedures like the one Bruna opted for cause “irreparable” damage to the eyes.

“The issue with injecting a silicone plate into the eye is that it clogs the drain of the eye, just like as if a sink was blocked,” Habash said. “The pressure builds and builds inside the eye, causing inflammation and damaging the structures. There’s a reason these procedures are not FDA approved and that’s because we’ve seen the long-term and irreparable damage they can cause.”

“Nadinne’s eye problems are something she will have to deal with for the rest of her life. She’s never going to be done with it,” she said.

Bruna said the surgery impacted her career as she was unable to participate in photo shoots for her Instagram page, because of the appearance of her eyes.

The model said she slipped into a deep depression throughout the past two years but said she was lucky to have the support of her sister.

“My sister became like my mom. She had to do everything for me,” she said. “I make most of my money through my Instagram account and I couldn’t do photoshoots, not while my eyes were red. I’ve been living on my savings. After this surgery I went into a deep depression. I’m a very strong person, usually very brave and very smart, but with this I was completely stupid. I trusted the wrong person.”

GLITTER SUNSCREEN MAKES WAVES: DERMATOLOGISTS DISCUSS THE SPARKLY NEW TREND

“Now I have the vision of a 90-year-old lady right but I’m hoping I can just keep my glaucoma under control,” she said.

Carbera said he could not comment on individual cases but said he was unaware of any reparative surgeries undertaken by Bruna.

“Mrs. Bruna was our patient. However, I do not know any type of treatments that have been carried out on later dates and the results or diagnoses of them,” he said. “I cannot comment and/or disclose information about patients' cases or medical records.”

Bruna has not taken legal action against Carbera's practice as she said she isn’t in the financial position to do so.

The model has taken to Instagram to warn her followers about the risks involved in the procedure, but said her experience won’t stop her going under the knife in the future.

“It’s crazy, because even though I’ve been open about this surgery on Instagram, people are still asking me where they can do it,” she said. “But I don’t think surgeries are bad. I just didn’t know the risks and I made a mistake by not doing my research. Next month I’m going to have a surgery to reduce my boobs because I’ve lost a lot of weight this year and it’s something I have to do.”Turns out that brand new, store-bought outfit may not be as clean as you think.

One expert made waves in a recent Huffington Post interview in which he claimed that new, unwashed articles of clothing can harbor fecal germs, norovirus and bacteria, including strep and staph.

Philip Tierno, professor of microbiology and pathology at New York University, told the outlet that his studies have indicated that germ counts are quite high on garments featured for sale in stores, given how many people try them on.

RACHEL DOLEZAL BRAGS ABOUT SUCCESSFUL HAIR SALON ON INSTAGRAM

“It’s not four or five or six people; it’s dozens and dozens ... if that garment sits there for weeks or a month,” he said.

People mostly spread germs from skin, respiratory tree and anus, he said, adding that even touching germ-infested clothing puts one at risk.

Germs aside, according to Tierno many clothing items are also treated with chemical-finishing agents and dyes that can irritate the skin, which gives you another reason to head to the laundry room before wearing your new look.

Donald Belsito, a professor of dermatology at Columbia University Medical Center, chimed in with similar thoughts to the Wall Street Journal, reporting that he has seen unwashed store-bought garments facilitate the spread of scabies, lice, fungus and infectious diseases.

TEENS PROTESTING HIGH SCHOOL DRESS CODE FIGHT FOR RIGHT TO GO BRALESS, WEAR SHORTER SHORTS

Whether you’re a fan of fast fashion or investment pieces, retail workers also agree that throwing your new duds in the wash before wearing is simply a smart idea.

"A lot of people just come home and if it has a tag attached, they think it's brand new and they wear it, Tori Patrick, a former retail saleswoman, told Good Morning America. "You really never know where it's been."

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSSharon Osbourne revealed this week she didn’t get along with Ashton Kutcher when he appeared on “The Talk” because of his “bad attitude.”

Osbourne said on “Larry King Now” there were a “couple of meanies” that appeared on the CBS show, but the one that specifically stood out was Kutcher.

“I didn’t get on with one guy, that Ashton Kutcher,” Osbourne, 65, said. “Didn’t get on with him at all.”

When host Larry King asked why, Osbourne said it was Kutcher’s “bad attitude” that rubbed her the wrong way. She took partial blame for the interview starting off badly because she got the “Ranch” actor’s name wrong.

“I got his name wrong so he was pissed. And he comes on with an attitude,” Osbourne recalled.

“He goes, ‘What have you done in this industry?’ And I was like, ‘Kid, don’t start with me because I’m going to eat you up, s--- you out.’ I was just like, ‘You don’t know what you’re dealing with kid,’” she added.

A post shared by Sharon Osbourne (@sharonosbourne) on Apr 8, 2018 at 8:29am PDT

Osbourne’s career began as a manager for musicians, including Ozzy Osbourne, who she later married. The couple starred in a reality show “The Osbournes” before she became a judge on British talent show “The X Factor” and a host on “The Talk.”

This isn’t the first time Osbourne has been outspoken about a celebrity. Osbourne criticized Kim Kardashian and her family in a previous interview with The Telegraph. She said Kardashian was “being a ho” and not a feminist by showing her body off.

“Those girls live off their bodies, half of L.A. has been through them and everything they do from the sex tape to the plastic see-through dresses and the gym wear is about sex, not female progress,” Osbourne said in September. “And listen: God bless them. If Kim wants to show off her body, fine. But that’s not feminism, that’s being a ho. And there’s nothing wrong with being a ho, but always remember what you are.”

Osbourne later said she was misquoted, but said she stood by what she said. Kardashian called Osbourne “ridiculous.”It’s been 50 years since The Monkees appeared in a psychedelic movie titled “Head” in 1968, but bandmate Micky Dolenz still doesn’t know what it’s all about.

“I wish I knew,” the 73-year-old told Closer Weekly Wednesday. “I wish I knew. 'The Monkees’ show was canceled and it was a mutual decision. Producers Bob Rafelson and Bert Schneider came up and said, ‘We have a chance to do a movie. What do you think?’ We sort of all agreed — well, I did anyway — that we didn’t want to do a 90-minute episode of ‘The Monkees.’”

“The Monkees,” which told the hilarious misadventures of a struggling rock band, aired from 1966 until 1968. And when the series came to an end, the beloved boy band was looking to do something completely different.

That’s when Rafelson introduced The Monkees to Jack Nicholson. Dolenz said the then-B-movie actor was interested in writing the film.

“We all fell in love with him immediately,” recalled Dolenz. “He was and still is incredibly charismatic, funny, brilliant. So we all got along. He hung out on the set of the show for months, and then we all got together and talked about this movie.”

And Nicholson wasn’t the only star to participate in “that very bizarre” film. Dennis Hopper also made an appearance in an uncredited role.

Both Hopper and Nicholson appeared in “Easy Rider” just a year later in 1969. Schneider, who created The Monkees as both an actual band and TV series, would also serve as producer for the iconic film.

But Dolenz didn’t rely on Hollywood for lasting success. In the 1980s, he served as producer and director for several British television shows.

“I didn’t rest on my laurels after ‘The Monkees,’” he explained. “I went to England to star in a play and got lucky and had an agent send me around. First thing I did was a drama play for the BBC, and then I went on from there and all I did was direct and produce. It was good because it gave me a chance to step back from it all and I didn’t do any singing. No Monkee business.”

It’s a decision Dolenz still doesn’t regret. And while he’s grateful for his time with the band, he’s also proud to have achieved a thriving career in show business on his own terms.

“It got to the point in England where they stopped saying ‘ex-Monkee Mickey Dolenz,’ and the headline would be, ‘Mickey Dolenz, television producer, is announcing the airdate of the beginning of a new series,’” he said. “So I got to be known and respected as a producer-director, and when I did go back to it in the ‘80s for the reunion, I was thrilled.

"It was only supposed to be a little 10-week tour, if that, just for the reunion, but it lasted… well, it lasted until this day.”

And as for critics labeling The Monkees as Beatles wannabes? Dolenz still isn’t fazed by it.

“My feeling at the time is when you’re that successful, you really don’t give a s--- what people say, frankly,” he said. “But the people I cared about got it. They got what it was. It was not trying to cash in on The Beatles. It was a television show.

"The Monkees was not a group or a band, it was a TV show about a band. And it was about this imaginary band that lived in this beach house… that wanted to be The Beatles.

“It was that struggle for that success that I think had a lot to do with touching all those kids out there around the country — around the world — there were in their basements and living rooms and garages. They wanted to be The Beatles, too.

"It’s important to remember that we were never famous on ‘The Monkees’ show. We never made it. It was the struggle for success that resonated with so many kids.”

And Dolenz is happily embracing his legacy with The Monkees. This June, he will join Michael Nesmith on tour. Peter Tork is currently busy with a blues project and Davy Jones died in 2012 at age 66 from a heart attack.

“… I never totally take anything for granted,” said Dolenz. “I feel blessed, you know?”Marvel Comics legend Stan Lee has slammed reports that he’s a victim of elder abuse.

“Hi, this is Stan Lee, and I’m calling on behalf of myself and my friend Keya Morgan. Now you people have been publishing the most hateful, harmful material about me and about my friend Keya and some others,” the 95-year-old Spider-Man creator said in a video released by TMZ on Wednesday night.

“Material which is totally incorrect, totally based on slander, totally the type of thing that I’m going to sue your ass off [for] when I get a chance,” he explained.

On Tuesday, The Hollywood Reporter published a story insinuating that no one surrounding Lee appeared to have his best interests at heart since the death of his wife last year.

The story cited a specific legal document Lee signed in February that reportedly stated that he and his daughter, J.C. Lee, were embroiled in a bitter war over his estate and her trust, arguing that J.C. was under the influence of three men with “bad intentions.” However, the story also contained a video — reportedly shot by Morgan — in which Lee distances himself from the incendiary claims made within the document.

Following the article’s publication, stars including Kevin Smith, Felicia Day and Seth Green reached out in hopes of helping Lee out of what they believed was an abusive situation.

The report was the latest in a series of unfortunate incidents surrounding Lee.

Earlier this month, TMZ reported that Morgan discovered that one of Lee’s former business associates allegedly stole a blood sample from Lee in October and attempted to sell merchandise signed with “Stan Lee’s solvent DNA ink.”

In February, police investigated $1.4 million that went missing from Lee’s home as he battled pneumonia and was hospitalized for an irregular heartbeat.

In January, some of Lee’s nurses accused him of sexual harassment.

This article originally appeared on Page Six.Khloe Kardashian's ex-husband, Lamar Odom, is apparently concerned about the reality star after reports surfaced that her boyfriend and soon-to-be father of her child cheated on her.

The former basketball star was once labeled a cheater himself, but has since owned up to his past mistakes.

"[He realizes] he wasn’t the best person he could be while they were together,” a source told Us Weekly on Wednesday.

Kardashian famously ended her four-year marriage with Odom in 2013 after discovering he was cheating. Their divorce was delayed after Odom nearly died following an overdose at Nevada's Bunny Ranch brothel. The pair eventually finalized their divorce after Odom recovered in 2016 — the year Kardashian started dating current beau, Tristan Thompson.

TMZ recently released videos of Thompson appearing to cheat on a pregnant Kardashian with several women back in October 2017 —and the news has not settled well with Odom, who is apparently "very concerned" about his ex-wife.

KHLOE KARDASHIAN'S BOYFRIEND TRISTAN THOMPSON ACCUSED OF CHEATING: TIMELINE OF THEIR ROMANCE

“Lamar would absolutely get back together with Khloe," the source told the magazine, adding that he's considered contacting the 33-year-old.

The former NBA player plans to hold off for now, as a nine-month- pregnant Kardashian prepares to give birth in Ohio.

“He wants to call her but doesn’t have a phone number for Khloe,” the source added. “He could call Kris, but doesn’t want to intrude because she is about to give birth."

The Kardashian sisters reportedly encouraged Khloe not to date another athlete after what happened with Odom.

“Tristan is the young hot star of one of the hottest teams in the NBA," the sisters apparently warned.

But Kardashian's relationship with Thompson was hot and heavy from the beginning.

KHLOE KARDASHIAN'S FRIEND SEEMINGLY ROASTS TRISTAN THOMPSON'S ALLEGED CHEATING ON INSTAGRAM: 'SHOTS FIRED'

The pair started their relationship around September 2016. By June 2017, Kardashian revealed they had discussed "starting a family." The couple confirmed, after much speculation, that she was pregnant in December 2017.

Kardashian has not yet commented publicly on videos that purportedly show Thompson cheating on her, though reports say she went “ballistic” when she heard the news.

She's due any day now and still plans to give birth in Ohio, where Thompson is based.

Fox News' Tyler McCarthy contributed to this report.NASCAR is bringing restrictor plate racing to Charlotte Motor Speedway, to see if it improves competition at the 1.5-mile track.

The trial will be combined with a new aerodynamic package that will be mandated for the non-points All-Star race on May 19.

The plates are used to reduce horsepower and are typically only used at the longer, faster Daytona and Talladega superspeedways.

The aero package that will be used in the May 19 All-Star race is the same that NASCAR tried in the Xfinity Series race at Indianapolis Motor Speedway last year. That race saw record numbers in leaders, lead changes and green flag passes for the lead.

FOLLOW FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE NASCAR NEWS

To replicate that for the All-Star race, each car will be fitted with aero ducts, a 6-inch-high spoiler with two 12-inch ears, a restrictor plate and the 2014 style splitter.

The format for the $1 million exhibition is four stages — 30 laps, 20 laps, 20 laps and a final 10 lap shootout for the grand prize. Only green flag laps will be counted in the final stage.

The Associated Press contributed to this reportPlastic surgeon Norman Rowe might specialize in “designer nipples,” but don’t poke fun — his business is reportedly booming, according to a feature published on The New York Post.

Rowe, who practices at Rowe Plastic Surgery on Park Avenue in NYC, says the women who seek his services are looking to change the firmness, shape and even color of their nipples, often in order to better highlight their breasts through their clothing.

“I think it would be really cool to just have protruding nipples all the time,” said one woman featured in the New York Post’s video.

TEEN HUMILIATED AFTER SCHOOL MADE HER COVER 'PROTRUDING' NIPPLES

One patient even cited Kendall Jenner as having ideal nipples, remarking that she loved the “pointiness” of Jenner’s nipples, and adding that they look “sexy and feminine” through her shirt.

Rowe achieves the results his patients seek, at least in part, with fillers that last “about two years,” he says, as opposed to a more traditional filler like Botox, which lasts only three to four months.

HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS PROTEST FOR RIGHT TO GO BRALESS

The “designer nipple” trend isn’t exactly new, either. Rowe told the DailyMail in June 2017 that requests for his services were on the rise. And in November 2017, the Huffington Post reported that a plastic surgery firm that operates in the Midwest saw requests for the surgery surge by as much as 30 percent.

Rowe added that celebrities are largely driving the trend, especially those wearing thin or sheer tops that highlight their bodies.

A post shared by Kendall (@kendalljenner) on Dec 1, 2016 at 9:00am PST

“My patients come in with pictures from magazines of nipples that they want; they want to wear see-through dresses too, and that makes them take a closer look at their nipples,” he told the Daily Mail in 2017.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

More recently, one of Rowe’s patients told the Post she was also hoping her new nipples would “constantly make her feel like a woman” — but Rowe still seems to credit celebrities with furthering that notion.

“I think more recently, the more prominent nipple has become a very popular look and a trend, and a lot of our patients want that high beam or headlight look,” he told the Post.A Disneyland character performer has found a new career as a model after being scouted on Instagram.

Bella Golden was contacted by a modeling agency on the social media site after leaving a random comment on another model’s photo.

A post shared by Bella Golden (@bellaagolden) on Sep 9, 2017 at 9:53am PDT

She said she first thought the whole thing was just a scam.

BOY STUNNED TO FIND 30-YEAR-OLD BAG OF CHIPS BURIED ON BRITISH BEACH

A post shared by Bella Golden (@bellaagolden) on Apr 18, 2017 at 9:38pm PDT

"They found me because I commented on one of Iskra Lawrence’s posts. I had been following her for a while and she posted something about body positivity, so I just commented something like ‘You look great, girl’ and that’s how my agent found me,” Golden told Cosmopolitan U.K.

“My profile was private but [the agent] followed me and then direct messaged me the next day asking if I was interested in modelling. I really thought it was a scam at first because, unless watching a lot of ‘America's Next Top Model’ counts, I had never done any modelling before,” she said.

Golden jokes that even though she didn’t have any experience in the industry, her time working at Disneyland might have helped prepare her for the job.

A post shared by Bella Golden (@bellaagolden) on Feb 14, 2017 at 2:52pm PST

"When I was first scouted I was working at Disneyland California as a character performer, which is kind of funny when I think back because I guess I've been posing for pictures longer than I realized. When people found out I worked at Disneyland they would always ask me if I was a Princess but I wasn't. I was the one dressed in a full on animal suit completely sweating," she said.

Now signed with the international agency Wilhelmina, Golden is on her way to making a name for herself in this new career. At a size 12, she’s considered plus-size in the fashion industry, but Golden is happy to be able to use her platform to promote body positivity and diversity.

"Learning to love myself definitely wasn't an overnight thing, so I adopted the 'fake it until you make it' attitude. Social media has also helped me feel better about myself by forcing me to step out of my comfort zone and post things that I would appreciate to see other people posting. I want any 14-year-old girl who follows me to feel comfortable in her body, so I purposefully go outside of my own comfort zone to show them a different body shape on a regular beach, rather than the 'perfect body' on a yacht somewhere,” she said.

A post shared by Bella Golden (@bellaagolden) on Aug 20, 2017 at 12:16pm PDT

The model also said she hopes someday it becomes the norm to show a wider range of body shapes and sizes.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

"I hope we can get to a point where diversity is a given and we don't have to label people by their size, race or disability. The more different body types we show the better, that way young girls who are growing up now will have something they can identify with."A contrite Mark Zuckerberg has been in damage control mode this week in Washington, D.C. as Facebook's future remains under a cloud of uncertainty following revelations Facebook data from up to 87 million users may have been improperly accessed by data-mining firm Cambridge Analytica.

"We didn't do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm," the CEO and co-founder said in his remarks before a rare joint hearing of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees on Tuesday. "We didn't take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake. It was my mistake, and I'm sorry."

Zuckerberg, who said he "didn't know" or would have "his team" follow up dozens of times during the two hearings, did not announce any new initiatives that would fundamentally alter the network's business model, nor was he able to explain why users weren't notified that their data was misused in December of 2015.

HOW TO CHECK IF FACEBOOK SHARED YOUR DATA WITH CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA

His own testimony showcased the many reasons the 33-year-old billionaire's creation has a longway to go before it is viewed again not as an enemy, but as a place you go to hang out with your friends.

Privacy problems persist

British political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica did work for the 2016 U.S. presidential campaigns of both Ted Cruz and Donald Trump and accessed the data thanks to Cambridge University researcher Aleksandr Kogan’s third-party app, "This Is Your Digital Life." His app was a personality quiz that 270,000 Facebook users took without knowing it would vacuum up all their data and all of their friends' data. Facebook learned about the incident in 2015, but didn’t publicly acknowledge it until articles were printed last month on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.

Cambridge Analytica has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing in the matter.

Fallout from the growing data security scandal has knocked roughly $80 billion from the social giant’s market value, led to a class-action lawsuit and prompted fierce questioning from some lawmakers on Capitol Hill.

The tech company now faces a new FTC investigation into allegations that it may have violated a 2011 consent order requiring Facebook to “establish and maintain a comprehensive privacy program” and get users’ “affirmative express consent before enacting changes that override their privacy preferences.” It also prohibited the social network from misrepresenting the privacy or security of its users’ data.

FACEBOOK MIGHT HAVE 29,000 DATA POINTS ON YOU, BUT MARK ZUCKERBERG DOESN'T REALLY KNOW

“This was an institutional failure on the part of American regulators,” said Sam Lester, a consumer privacy fellow at the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC).

Although Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg recently said the company was "too idealistic" in its handling of privacy issues and abuse, an examination of the company's growth and previous run-ins with regulators shows that both she and Zuckerberg might have known better.

EPIC has warned the federal government since 2009 that Facebook was playing fast and loose with its users’ data and that strong regulatory oversight was needed. That oversight may be coming, thanks in part to the efforts of regulators in Europe, where the stringent General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which takes effect on May 25, will empower users with new control over their data in four key areas and impose stiff fines on Facebook or any company that violates the rules.

Among other features, the GDPR will give users a fully inclusive “right to be forgotten” that not only includes deleting your data but also preventing it from being further disseminated or used by third parties; it requires users to be notified of any data breach within 72 hours of a company learning about it; and would impose a fine of up to 4 percent of annual revenue for each violation. In Facebook’s case, that would mean a fine of approximately $1.6 billion per violation in Europe.

FACEBOOK RECONSIDERS 'UNSAFE FOR COMMUNITY' TAG ON PRO-TRUMP DIAMOND AND SILK VIDEOS AFTER FOX & FRIENDS APPEARANCE

Beleaguered behemoth

If the FTC finds that Facebook violated the 2011 consent order, the agency could fine it up to $41,484 per user that was impacted: meaning a total fine in the trillions of dollars. It's unlikely Facebook would be fined anywhere near that amount, but some industry watchers have speculated a potential FTC penalty could be in the billions of dollars.

A coalition of consumer groups, in an open letter on Monday to Zuckerberg, urged Facebook’s co-founder and CEO to adopt GDPR as the “baseline standard for all Facebook services” globally. In recent comments to reporters, the Facebook chief executive said that he would like to make GDPR protections available to users in North America and non-EU regions, but he hedged by not providing exact details about how that would look.

Forty-six percent of U.S. adults want to see more regulation of how the tech industry handles user privacy, according to a recent Reuters poll.

Steven Berman, managing partner of Hagens Berman, which on Monday filed a class-action lawsuit on behalf of those whose data was allegedly harvested by Cambridge Analytica, said in a statement that Facebook has “repeatedly failed to uphold its privacy agreements” and “brazenly neglected the security of the billions of those who use its social media service.”

The lawsuit seeks compensation and injunctive relief.

In addition, advocacy groups for Muslims and African-Americans have called for a "civil rights audit" of the social network to ensure it is free from discrimination and hate speech.

“Governments have a responsibility to protect people’s privacy and security by solving problems any tech company and industry can’t alone—that’s when regulation comes into play,” Denelle Dixon, COO of Mozilla, told Fox News.

Her company, which makes the web browser Firefox, was the first brand to pull its advertising from Facebook when the data scandal first broke.

The fine print

Although Facebook has said repeatedly that users freely share a multitude of information and are aware of its privacy rules listed online, many people do not pay attention to the fine print or get discouraged by having to click through multiple screens. The data scandal could change user behavior.

Facebook, for its part, has recently revamped its privacy settings pages to make them more user-friendly.

“Consumers need to use the privacy tools and controls they have today. Those controls don’t solve all of our privacy and security challenges,” said Dixon. “If the existing tools and controls don’t meet your needs, then people have to demand what they need.”

At Mozilla, where privacy has been a core principle for years, the company has long maintained a policy of “no surprises” and “only collect what you need.”

Facebook’s sheer scale is undeniable. For countless people outside of Europe and North America, Facebook is the Internet. The tech giant owns Instagram, Messenger and WhatsApp, which have over 800 million, 1 billion and 1.5 billion monthly active users, respectively. It's incorporated features from competitors like Snapchat, seemingly dampening their growth and along with Google, controlled more than 80 percent of the global digital advertising market in 2017, according to a report in the Financial Times.

Some lawmakers, including Sen. Ron Wyden, (D.-OR.), have even floated the idea that Facebook could be broken up for antitrust violations if it does not handle the burgeoning scandal.

“I don’t see there being a Bell/AT&T-like breakup for Facebook, Instagram, et al. There is plenty of competition to go around online. Breaking it up would only hurt the future of social networks,” Jason Mollica, a lecturer at American University’s School of Communication, told Fox News.

HOW MUCH DOES FACEBOOK MAKE OFF YOU? THE AMOUNT MAY SURPRISE YOU

Customers, not products

Mozilla's Dixon believes that the pressure from users and advertisers is having an impact on Facebook.

“To be clear, Facebook can and will still monetize user data, as will other companies, but events like this hopefully will force companies to have a more clear, transparent value exchange with users and to curtail activity that doesn’t really put users first,” Dixon added.

However, this isn’t the tech giant’s first time in the spotlight, nor is it the first time it has promised to do better. Lester said that users should be skeptical when Zuckerberg and other Facebook executives say they'll take care of things.

“We don’t want to leave everything in the hands of Facebook,” Lester, who worked as a law clerk with the FTC’s Bureau of Consumer Protection while at Georgetown University, told Fox News. “Their business model relies on collecting all this info and developing these secret profiles.”

"It’s not just Facebook—time and time again, the companies with whom we trust with our most sensitive data have shown that privacy and security are optional.” - Denelle Dixon, COO of Mozilla

A SurveyMonkey poll in the wake of the privacy scandal found that 56 percent of users who know about the topic do not trust the social network to protect user privacy, and 60 percent plan to share less personal information with Facebook.

“Facebook offers a service people value, otherwise so many people wouldn’t continue to use it. There’s nothing inherently wrong with that,” said Dixon. “The problem is that users don’t see or understand what they are giving up in exchange for that service. There’s something out of balance with the value exchange. Users are being last rather than first.”

Regulators are paying attention.

In addition to the FTC’s probe confirmed on March 26, the Federal Election Commission recently announced that political advertisements online will soon have to identify their sponsors. This happened in the wake of Russia’s disinformation campaign, which harnessed Facebook and other platforms.

Facebook executives have said this week that they will implement the requirements of the Honest Ads Act, a bipartisan bill that would improve transparency and increase regulations around online political ads.

“Cambridge Analytica sparked a moment because people are looking more broadly at the power that Facebook has in many areas,” said Lester. “We need public oversight and accountability.”

Cambridge Analytica said in a Monday statement that it did not illegally or inappropriately collect or share Facebook data with anyone else, that it has not broken FEC regulations and that it did not use the Facebook data during the 2016 U.S. presidential election. The company also launched a new site to dispel what it claims are falsehoods surrounding its role in the data scandal.

“It’s not just Facebook—time and time again, the companies with whom we trust with our most sensitive data have shown that privacy and security are optional,” Dixon said.

Indeed, Google collects a gigantic amount of data from you through search, Gmail, Maps and more. This week, the company was accused by a coalition of privacy groups of illegally obtaining data from underage children on YouTube.

“The dismay of users around the world has really underlined that such an approach is untenable, and we, as a technology community, need to build products and services that put the user at the center, that empower them to make informed choices, that meet their expectations around privacy,” she continued, “where they are the customer, not the product.”A Connecticut man has pleaded guilty to hacking into the iCloud accounts of Hollywood stars and others so he could steal personal information, including private photographs and videos.

Federal prosecutors say 26-year-old George Garofano, of North Branford, pleaded guilty Wednesday to unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information.

The charge stemmed from the investigation into the 2014 scandal in which the private photos of Jennifer Lawrence, Kirsten Dunst, Kate Upton and others were made public.

Prosecutors say Garofano sent emails that appeared to be from Apple encouraging victims to disclose usernames and passwords. He then used the information to illegally access nearly 250 iCloud accounts.

Garofano, who remains free on $50,000 bond, faces up to five years in prison at sentencing at a date to be determined.A nun fighting Katy Perry's purchase of a former convent is fired up and reaching out to a higher authority -- Pope Francis himself -- to intervene in the case that has brought the “Roar” singer a rash of negative publicity.

“They’ll have to kill me first if they want to keep me quiet,” Sister Rita Callanan, 80, told Fox News this week, referring to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, which she said wrongly sold the property to Perry. “I am asking Pope Francis to intercede."

Callanan and her attorneys hope the pontiff will review the case and speak to the Signatora, the highest court in Rome. "It’s like the U.S. Supreme Court,” according to Callanan.

The nun says the death last month of Sister Catherine Rose Holzman - a close friend and ally in the fight over the sale of their order’s convent on eight acres in the Los Feliz area - has motivated her to stay in the battle, despite urgings by doctors and friends to drop the matter for health reasons.

NUN IN KATY PERRY LAWSUIT DIES AFTER COURTROOM COLLAPSE

They'll have to kill me first if they want to keep me quiet. I'm asking Pope Francis to intercede. - Sister Rita Callanan, who is in a court fight to keep an old convent from being sold to Katy Perry

Callanan and Holzman, who was 89, vowed they would fight to the end for the property the Sisters of the Most Holy and Immaculate Heart of the Blessed Virgin Mary owned for more than 40 years. That ended when, as the nuns tell it, the Archdiocese of Los Angeles forced them out.

Callanan said she, Holzman and other nuns who lived at the property had seen it as their "Motherhouse," where they would grow old together, and look after one another.

The letter to Pope Francis, in which Callanan also appeals for a meeting with the pontiff, says the nuns "were promised that we would always be taken care of by the archdiocese and that we would live out the rest of our lives at our convent. After we are all gone, the Archbishop would inherit our property … Archbishop Gomez has broken these promises to us."

"He tried to sell our convent without our approval to a person whom we do not support. It is the pop star Katy Perry," the letter reads. "We do not agree with her lifestyle that has strayed far from any faith … At the end of our lives, we find ourselves fighting for justice and for what is right."

The archdiocese sold the property to Perry for $14.5 million, but the Vatican must give its approval before the deal is considered final.

Archdiocese officials deny they broke any agreement with the nuns, and say they have acted with their best interests in mind.

"The main concern of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles is and has always been the care and well-being of all the ... sisters," Adrian M. Alarcon, director of media relations for the archdiocese, told Fox News on Wednesday. Alarcon said the property has been vacant since 2011 "because it became too costly for the five remaining sisters to maintain and no longer accommodated their physical needs."

Holzman died on March 9 after collapsing in a courtroom for a hearing related to the case. She signed the letter to the pope before she died.

The two nuns had wanted a friend and entrepreneur, Dana Hollister, to buy the property instead of Perry, trusting that Hollister would honor the spirit of their former homestead. But a judge last year voided the sale to Hollister and ruled the archdiocese, and not the nuns, had the right to sell the property.

“Two days before she had this heart attack she called me and said ‘You know, Rita, this stress the archbishop is putting Dana through is just killing me,’” Callanan recalled. “In court she was in front me and during recess she said ‘My chest hurts,’ and she collapsed on my lap, right on my lap.”

The main concern of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles is and has always been the care and well-being of all the [Immaculate Heart] sisters. - Archdiocese of Los Angeles

“I can’t believe we’ve been treated the way we have,” Callanan said, adding the archdiocese conducted the negotiations with Perry without informing the nuns, who learned of the deal through a third party. “Here were two elderly sisters who should be living peacefully after serving the Lord for many years and we’re put through this.”

Holzman expressed her anguish in an interview with a local Fox affiliate station just hours before she died. Holzman said: “Katy Perry, please stop. It’s not doing anyone any good [and it’s] hurting a lot of people.”

Perry's pulblicist declined to comment for this story. Published reports have said Perry wants to live on the property with her mother and grandmother.

Meanwhile, archdiocese officials have said the remaining nuns from the order will be taken care of. Callanan said that's not the case, adding that she often finds herself struggling.

“We were in this archdiocese for so many years, and then to be thrown under the bus,” she said. “These things are inexcusable."

Callanan said isn't going to shrink from the fight, not even if it means going up against the popular "American Idol" judge and the archdiocese.

“It’s very much, to me, a David and Goliath fight,” the nun said. “And you know who won that battle.”Khloe Kardashian's friend Khadijah Haqq McCray -- Malika Haqq's twin sister -- is sticking by the reality star's side as cheating rumors about her current beau and soon-to-be father to her child swirl. The 35-year-old posted a cryptic Instagram post Tuesday, the day TMZ released videos of Thompson appearing to cheat on a pregnant Kardashian.

"The best thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother," McCray's post read, attributing the quote to John Wooden. She captioned the graphic with a first bump emoji.

But both Kardashian and McCray fans knew exactly who the quote was targeting, with several Instagram users responding with the same two words: "Shots fired!" More than 1,500 people commented on the post, weighing in on Thompson's alleged "betrayal."

PREGNANT KHLOE KARDASHIAN'S BOYFRIEND TRISTAN THOMPSON APPARENTLY SEEN CHEATING IN NEW VIDEO

"Honestly everything that’s going on with your friend Khloe and what that guy did to her is disgusting!" one Instagram user replied. "Khloe really wanted a family and to be in love. You can tell how happy she was from looking at the videos and posts. This is beyond betrayal."

"I feel so bad for Khloe, she’s my favorite Kardashian, she’s true to herself and gives her man 110%," another added.

👊🏾 A post shared by Khadijah Haqq McCray (@foreverkhadijah) on Apr 10, 2018 at 8:26am PDT

"The shade. I feel so sorry for Khloe," one woman wrote.

The rumors of Thompson's cheating came just one day after the star posted an image of the two of them kissing on Instagram while he holds her baby bump.

As of Thursday morning, Kardashian had yet to post anything on social media nor had she commented publicly on videos that reportedly show Thompson cheating on her with other women back in October 2017, though reports say she went “ballistic” when she heard the news.

Fans came to Kardashian's defense Wednesday night, booing the Cleveland Cavaliers player as he entered a game at his home court, the Quicken Loans Arena. Signs in support of the 9-months-pregnant Kardashian were also spotted among the crowd -- a move that was heavily praised on social media.

FANS BOO TRISTAN THOMPSON IN FIRST GAME SINCE ALLEGEDLY CHEATING ON PREGNANT KHLOE KARDASHIAN

"It’s what he deserves! Kudos to the crowd," one Twitter user posted.

"What an absolute atrocious pig he is!! Love Khloe. She will be fine with her supportive family and friends around her. I hope he gets booed every time he hits the court!" another added.

The “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” star is still expected to give birth in Ohio -- where Thompson is based.

Fox News' Stephen Sorace and Tyler McCarthy contributed to this report.At age 96, Doris Day is loving life.

The celebrated actress, best recognized as America’s Sweetheart, left behind Hollywood in 1973 to dedicate her life to rescuing animals in need — and she has zero regrets.

“I’ve been blessed with good health, wonderful pals, lovely fans and so many precious four-leggers. What more could I ask for?” Day told Closer Weekly Wednesday.

“I loved my singing and acting career, but my greatest accomplishment is the important work I do for my two charities," she added.

And Day is eager to stay busy. Not only does she happily answer fan letters from all over the world, but she also stays active with her Doris Day Animal Foundation, which offers scholarships to veterinary students. She makes sure to review applications submitted by hopefuls throughout the year.

The screen legend also surrounds herself with furry friends and wouldn’t have it any other way.

“My household is full of dogs and cats,” she revealed.

But despite her enduring legacy in Hollywood, Day is determined to stay out of the spotlight.

“I have no regrets,” she said. “I’ve always believed things work out exactly as they’re supposed to.

However, Day has privately suffered from a painful loss. Her only son Terry Melcher died of cancer in 2004 at age 62.

“My son was the love of my life,” she said. “We talked every day, and I miss him very much. [But] we can’t change the past. I think you have to get through the bad times to appreciate the good things in life.

"I’ve had my share of both and I always say, ‘I’m like one of those dolls with the round bottom: If life deals you a blow, you just have to bounce right back!'"

But one thing that comforts Day these days is the admiration she still receives from fans.

“I don’t understand it, but I love it and I’m very grateful for it,” she admitted. “It means more to me than I can say, and I love them all… It’s been a wonderful life, and I’m not finished yet. I think the best is yet to come! I’m so proud of the strides we’ve made — and continue to make — in the animal welfare community.”

And Day has never forgotten those who’ve believed in her. Back in December, Day told Fox News she still cherished her memories working with “Dick Van Dyke Show” star Rose Marie, who died that same year at age 94.

“Ro and I hit it off from the first time we met nearly 50 years ago and have been friends ever since,” Day wrote to Fox News exclusively. “We spent countless hours on the set of my TV show talking and laughing. I loved working with her, but you couldn’t call it work because we had so much fun. We’ve stayed in touch all these years with regular phone calls, especially on birthdays and holidays.”

Both women found comfort in each other after being faced with personal tragedies while appearing on “The Doris Day Show.” Rose Marie worked alongside Day in the sitcom from 1968 until 1971.

Rose Marie was married to trumpeter Bobby Guy for almost 20 years until his sudden death at age 48 in 1964 from what The New York Times described as “a sudden, overwhelming bloodstream infection.”

Day’s third husband Martin Melcher, whom she married in 1951, died from a heart attack in 1968 at age 52.

The sitcom came to an end in 1973, the same year Day chose to retire and focus on animal rescue.

“We were both widowed, single moms and talked a little about that,” Day recalled. “I knew she loved Bobby very much. It seemed she was always taking home movies on our set.

"How fun [it is] for me to see those people again in the film and to remember what a fun and fantastic time we had on that show.”Laurence Miller was scanning the sand for trash with a group of beach-cleaning volunteers Sunday when he spotted an unopened bag of onion and cheese chips.

Snacks are buried all over beaches, but this partiular kind of potato chip was unlike anything Miller had ever seen. That's because the chips were three times his age.

The 10-year-old boy showed the decades-old Walkers crisps bag to Rob Stevenson, who organizes volunteer groups for the Beach Guardian Project. Based on the packaging, Stevenson guessed the bag dated back to the 1980s.

DOG BECOMES STAR ON GOOGLE MAPS AFTER CHASING STREET VIEW VEHICLE DOWN ROAD

“We think the packet dates from the 1980s as on the back it says ‘The Valuation Game,'" Stevenson told SWNS. "We think that was a promotion they ran as a sort of football thing. We found a guy selling ‘The Valuation Game’ book on eBay and he said this is about 30 years old."

“The crisps are more than three times older than him. It really demonstrates just what the problem of using plastics are." - Rob Stevenson

Stevenson said the find is just the latest example of the troubling effect pollution, particularly plastic, is having on the world's oceans -- and urged residents to clean up after themselves.

“The crisps are more than three times older than him, it really demonstrates just what the problem of using plastics are," Stevenson said. "Some of them will stay in the sand dunes if people have dropped them and the wind blows the sand over and they get covered; stuff floats around in the sea and gets battered; some may be in a sand dune for a long time, fall into the sea and come back in again."

A 2014 study published in a Public Library of Science journal revealed there's a minimum of 5 trillion pieces of plastic (weighing 268,940 tons) in our world's oceans -- and that number is only expected to grow.

A "floating" island of trash, dubbed the Great Pacific Garbage Patch (GPGP), stretches 600,000 square miles across the Pacific Ocean, according to a study published in Scientific Reports in late March. It's more than three times the size of France.

“We can’t say how long the plastic has been exposed for or where it’s been, but it goes to show if you litter something somewhere, it does generally end up in the sea," Stevenson commented.

He had to admit, though, it was an exciting find.

“It’s probably the strangest thing I’ve found; I found lumps of palm oil in blocks and they get washed up sometimes, they are quite weird to find," Miller added.

This boy's strange discovery comes just months after another clean-up crew spotted a Walkers crisps bag from 1997 in nearby Constantine Bay, SWNS reports.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

A Walkers spokesperson said they take littering seriously, and hope to find a solution to the problem plaguing the planet in the near future.

“We include on-pack labels to encourage our consumers to dispose of their waste responsibly and are also working towards the goal of designing all our packaging to be recyclable, compostable or biodegradable by 2025," the company said.I am paid to have an opinion about news and politics.

That’s literally the job of a columnist and commentator, which is the role I played several years ago on Fox News and now play on CNN. I have strong opinions on public policies and social issues and I express those opinions strongly in my writing and TV appearances. And I think that having such opinions, and being free to express them, is the cornerstone of an active and free democracy.

AND I think we can all have our different opinions, and believe in them deeply, without demeaning and dehumanizing one another.

In my new book “The Opposite Of Hate: A Field Guide To Repairing Our Humanity,” I explore the dynamic of hate in our society and the world around us — how we have come to historically and habitually treat groups of others as less-than, the science and psychology of why we hate, and what we can do to stop it. And my central argument is that whichever group or side you believe does it worse, we all are part of the problem. Which means we all need to be part of the solution.

If you agree with me that incivility and downright cruelty is becoming all too common in our culture and politics, then the question is what are you going to do about it?

The problem isn’t our differences and disagreements. In fact, I think our different opinions and identities should be celebrated — however imperfectly achieved throughout history, the aspiration to have so many different people with different beliefs co-exist within one nation is what arguably makes the United States unique in the world, an aspiration also worth celebrating.

Our national motto is e pluribus unum — out of many, one. It’s an ideal, if not always a reality, but represents the intended spirit of America — that we come together in spite of our differences, not ignoring them.

The problem comes in how we express our differences and disagreements — and whether we default to treating those who aren’t on “our side” as though they’re inherently evil. So, for instance, part of the reason I’m a progressive is that I believe that in our interactions as people and in our public policies we should recognize the full equality and equal dignity of all human beings. And so since the 2016 election, I’ve been dismayed by the surge of anti-immigrant sentiment, Islamophobia and other forms of hate that I believe have been explicitly stoked by Donald Trump through both his campaign and his presidency. And yet I’ve also watched as my fellow progressives have hurled ugly smears about those who voted for Trump, saying that Trump supporters are deliberately and even inherently hateful… and that’s why my progressive friends hate them.

Do you see the hypocrisy there? Can we all see the hypocrisy when we do a version of this, using the fact that some other group is supposedly hateful to in turn justify our own hatred — as though hate is ever the antidote to hate?

I’m honestly not saying I think all sides are equal here. For instance, I think there’s a big difference between being a neo-Nazi and hating neo-Nazis. But hate is hate and only begets more hate. And we look at the animosity between conservatives and liberals, it’s important to note that neither side thinks they are the hateful ones — but points the finger at the other.

Instead, someone has to take the first step in tempering that animosity and showing how we can disagree without being disagreeable. Or maybe we can all take that step together.

I don’t hate Trump supporters and I don’t hate conservatives in general. I disagree, in large part, with their solutions to what ails our nation — but I don’t think they’re bad people who, by and large, mean to do harm to me or our country. And it’s up to me to convey my disagreements with conservatives in a way that is still fundamentally respectful and kind. Plus to remember that as important as our differences and disagreements are, we all still have so much in common.

We want a better future for our children and, I think, for all children. We want a brighter future for America and the world. At least I assume we all want those things because I try to assume the best intentions in each of our hearts.

I can’t make every progressive be kind and respectful to every conservative just like I can’t make every conservative be kind and respectful to every liberal but I can try to encourage as many as possible and lead by example as best as I can. And it’s my strongly held opinion that if we all do so more, we will have a more civil and productive democracy and society that we can all feel more proud to be a part of.On Holocaust Remembrance Day on Thursday, we recall the two pillars of the Holocaust: “Never Forget” and “Never Again.”

But have we as Americans forgotten?

Though prior research has been conducted on baseline Holocaust awareness and denial, there had been no scientific study to date that zeroed in on what specific knowledge Americans have about the Holocaust, as well as attitudes that Americans have towards the current state of Holocaust education in the U.S.

To fill this research void, our firm, Schoen Consulting, was commissioned by the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany – an organization that works to secure grants from the German government to protect survivors and support Holocaust education and research – to conduct a comprehensive survey of Holocaust knowledge, awareness and education in the U.S.

Our findings were both encouraging and troubling.

While there is a near universal appreciation of the importance of Holocaust education (93 percent), detailed knowledge about the Holocaust is alarmingly low, especially among millennials – 22 percent of whom have never even heard of the Holocaust.

There was a time when the phrase “6 million Jews” who were murdered by the Nazis during the Holocaust were essentially synonymous with the Holocaust itself. Yet, we found that many Americans today vastly underestimate the number of Jewish people that were murdered during the Holocaust.

Our survey found that nearly one-third of Americans (31 percent) and over four-in-ten millennials (41 percent) believe that just 2 million Jews or fewer were killed during the Holocaust.

Further, though there were over 40,000 concentration camps and ghettos throughout Europe during the Holocaust, the survey found that nearly half of respondents could not name a single concentration camp or ghetto (45 percent of U.S. adults and 49 percent of millennials).

And at a time when the last remaining Holocaust survivors are dying off, we see that Americans have become detached from this painful, unspeakable period in history. Eight-in-ten Americans have never visited a Holocaust museum, while two-thirds (66 percent) do not even know of a Holocaust survivor.

It is worth noting that most Americans are aware of this progressive detachment – 70 percent of U.S. adults believe fewer people seem to care about the Holocaust than they used to.

With a majority of Americans (59 percent) having first learned about the Holocaust at school, it is clear that we need a decisive upgrade in the quality of Holocaust education at the high school and collegiate level.

It is clear that without proper education, the low level of current Holocaust knowledge will inevitably only depreciate further going forward when there are fewer and fewer survivors who are able to tell their stories.

But importantly, a silver lining emerged from our findings: there is a clear desire for Holocaust education among Americans.

In fact, our research revealed that 93 percent of Americans believe that all students should be required to learn about the Holocaust while in school.

Moreover, the majority of Americans understand the importance of promoting Holocaust education, as 80 percent of respondents said that it is important to educate younger generations about the Holocaust in order to ensure that it does not happen again.

Ultimately, it is crucial that we strengthen and amplify Holocaust education in the U.S.

Specifically, we must focus on encouraging education at the high school and college levels to effectively combat Holocaust ignorance among younger generations.

Right now, only nine states – New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, Florida, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan and California – require some measure of Holocaust or genocide education. Kentucky will soon also make Holocaust lessons mandatory for all public middle and high schools.

It is imperative that states across the country begin to take similar action, as state legislation not only combats Holocaust ignorance among young people, but also standardizes and improves core school curricula.

The sentiment “those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it” is timeless saying with immense relevance to Holocaust education. As we gather together to remember this Yom HaShoah (Holocaust Remembrance Day), it is imperative that we as Americans, and as citizens of the world, work to ensure that the crucial lessons from the Holocaust are not forgotten.

Arielle Confino is a senior vice president at Schoen Consulting.Apple’s HomePod is in trouble.

Apple Stores have seen their inventories of the flagship smart speaker gather dust as demand has slowed, according to Bloomberg.

The $349 home speaker — which has Apple’s Siri voice assistant built in and is meant to compete with Amazon’s Alexa-powered Echo speakers — has seen such bad sales that Apple has cut orders from its Chinese suppliers, according to Bloomberg.

The HomePod, which was released in January, captured only 10 percent of the smart speaker market during its first 10 weeks in stores, according to market research firm Slice Intelligence, while Amazon’s Alexa-powered Echo line captured 73 percent and the Google Home speaker took 14 percent.

The report cited Apple Store workers who said some locations sell fewer than 10 HomePod speakers a day.

The HomePod’s weakness is that its Siri and Apple Music exclusivity make it a hard sell as a smart speaker for anyone who isn’t fully invested in Apple’s ecosystem. The Google Assistant and Amazon’s Alexa are both more useful than Siri at this stage of the game, according to gadget reviewers.

In what looks like an attempt to close the gap, Apple last week poached Google’s former head of search and artificial intelligence, John Giannandrea, who played a crucial role in beefing up the Google Assistant’s brains.

Apple shares were up as much as 1.4 percent Thursday morning, at $174.79 at 11:20 a.m.

This story originally appeared in the New York Post.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg faced a grilling on Capitol Hill over the data privacy scandal rocking his company. Zuckerberg was seemingly prepared for questions on a range of issues from Cambridge Analytica to Facebook’s default-privacy settings.

The social media mogul, however, appeared taken off-guard when he was asked about his sexist college website, FaceMash.

Zuckerberg created FaceMash in October 2003 when he was a student at Harvard. He worked around Harvard’s computer security settings on its online dorm directories to gather photos of students to rate their looks. FaceMash went viral across campus as students rated side-by-side images of their classmates. FaceMash was quickly taken down and prompted Harvard to call Zuckerberg in front of a disciplinary panel.

ZUCKERBERG ADMITS FACEBOOK COLLECTS DATA ON NON-USERS

Jump to 2018 and a Congressional panel, and enter Congressman Billy Long (R.-MO). Long asked an apparently annoyed Zuckerberg what FaceMash is and whether or not it is still up-and-running.

Zuckerberg replied, “No, Congressman. FaceMash was a prank website that I launched in college, in my dorm room, before I started Facebook. There was a movie about this, or it said it was about this, it was of unclear truth. The claim that FaceMash was somehow connected to the development of Facebook, it isn't, it wasn't... It actually has nothing to do with Facebook."

Long continued, however, and asked for further clarification regarding the purpose of FaceMash, "You put up pictures of two women and decided which one was more attractive of the two, is that right?"

Zuckerberg responded saying: "Congressman, that is an accurate description of the prank website I made when I was a sophomore."

Watch CEO Facebook Mark Zuckerberg and Missouri Congressman Billy Long’s exchange above, and don’t miss the media mogul’s reactions.The Army is massively revving up deployment of RPG-killing Active Protection Systems weapons on Abrams battle tanks to Europe as part of a sweeping effort to better arm its Armored Brigade Combat Teams and counter Russian threats in the region.

Active Protection Systems (APS) use sensors and radar, computer processing, fire control technology and interceptors to find, target and knock down or intercept incoming enemy fire such as RPGs and Anti-Tank Guided Missiles, or ATGMs.

The APS system now on Abrams tanks, called Trophy, is engineered to track and destroy approaching enemy fire through 360-degree radar and computer-enabled fire control technology designed to fire out an interceptor projectile to hit and explode attacking RPGs.

“Not only will we be fielding one set of Trophy on Abrams tanks to Europe, but also three other brigades,” Maj. Gen. John Ferrari, Director, Program Analysis and Evaluation, G-8, told Warrior Maven in an interview.

The weapons plus-up for Europe-bound APS is woven into the 2019 budget request, he added.

Click on Warrior Maven for more.Nobody likes telemarketing and spam calls, but if you own a Pixel, Nexus, or Android One device, you may never again have to deal with them.

9to5Google reports that Google is planning to update its default phone dialer app with a new feature that will send spam calls straight to voicemail. The app already warns users about potential spammers by turning the incoming call screen red, but this new feature goes beyond that.

"When a potential spam call is detected, it will be sent straight to voicemail," 9to5Google reports. "As such, the phone will not ring and you won't be interrupted."

You won't get a notification about the missed call, but a record of it will appear in your call history. If the spammer leaves a voicemail, you'll be able to listen to and/or delete it in the app's voicemail tab.

9to5Google says the feature is slated to roll out worldwide in the coming weeks, or you can get it right now as part of a new Phone app beta program.

T-Mobile last year added a feature called Scam ID that flags "known scam" calls for its wireless users. The feature, which is included in all T-Mobile postpaid plans at no extra cost, will pop up a warning if a call is coming from a number identified in PrivacyStar's database of scam callers. Meanwhile, AT&T in 2016 launched an app called Call Protect, which warns subscribers if an incoming call might be spam.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.We've already learned quite a bit from Mark Zuckerberg's grilling by a joint session of the Senate Commerce and Judiciary Committees. But Zuckerberg has now revealed another fact that is sure to worry anyone who doesn't use Facebook. As many already suspected, Facebook collects data about non-users, too.

As Bloomberg reports, Representative Ben Lujan asked Zuckerberg whether or not Facebook collected data on users who did not have an account. Zuckerberg admitted they do, stating "In general we collect data on people who are not signed up for Facebook for security purposes." He doesn't recognize the term "shadow profiles," though.

Lujan rightly went on to point out that, "You've said everyone controls their data, but you're collecting data on people that are not even Facebook users who have never signed a consent, a privacy agreement." Zuckerberg fell back on the security reasoning, stating "We need to know when somebody is trying to repeatedly access our services."

It gets worse than just an admission of data collection without consent, though. Lujan had clearly done his homework and investigated how to gain access to a record of data collected about non-users. It resulted in Facebook asking non-users to sign-up for an account and therefore no data is available.

Zuckerberg is admitting something many suspected, and in doing so causes Facebook a serious problem. It is now on record that Facebook collects data about non-users and Zuckerberg has no idea how much data is stored without consent or specifically how it is used. It seems clear Facebook is going to have to unlock that data, because as Lujan stated "We've got to fix that."

Such data being made public would reveal the full extent of Facebook's tracking without consent. Zuckerberg believes the non-user data is stored simply for security purposes. However, Bloomberg points out that former Faecbook employee Antonio Garcia Martinez believes his explanation of the data use is incomplete. If it is, and it's being used for other commercial, privacy-breaking things, expect to see Zuckerberg answering many more questions most likely surrounded by a small army of lawyers.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.Given their action-oriented plots, power-up-driven quests, and cartoonish violence, movies based on video games are a natural fit for pro-wrestler-turned-irresistible-actor Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson. His latest film, Rampage, which opens Friday, April 13, sure fits that bill. More importantly, we also know that in the movie Johnson drives around in a Ford Bronco concept. No, not a concept of the upcoming Bronco—one from nearly 15 years ago.

The action of the movie is quite plainly derived from that of the game, a Bally Midway arcade diversion from the mid-’80s in which animals—ferociously Frankensteined by synthetic food additives, environmental waste, and other proxies for scientific hubris—wreak havoc on the infrastructure, skyscrapers, and residents of various cities, only able to advance when everything is ruined. So, why is there a Bronco in it?

MORE CLASSIC CAR NEWS FROM HAGERTY

“As they were putting the movie together, the script called for them to use a Jeep,” says Craig Patterson, Ford’s SUV Marketing Manager. “But Dwayne Johnson is a huge Ford fan, and had worked with us previously doing advertising work for us for our Customer Service division. And he said, ‘I’d much rather use a Ford product here, and I know there’s a new Bronco coming out. Maybe I could use that?’”

If you’re The Rock, one of the highest-paid and most bankable actors in the world, it’s apparently that easy. You just make your vehicular wishes known, and they come true. Of course, there was one glitch. “We’re actually quite a ways from having a new Bronco available to do something with,” Patterson says.

As it happens, the forthcoming version of the iconic off-roader is not expected to go into production until 2020, and has not yet been unveiled. Fortunately, Ford had a solution. According to Patterson, the Hollywood studio team told Johnson, “We have a concept vehicle that we made for an auto show some time ago. And you could use that if you’re interested.”

This was a previous Bronco revival mockup, a block fantasy created way back in 2004. These chimeras are often crushed to save on storage costs, but this one was still lingering in a warehouse. “It had a lot of fans internally,” Patterson says. “So we kept it around hoping that we could build it someday.”

That truck was built on a rolling chassis, and capable of going around 30 mph, so when you see it moving in Rampage, it’s possible that it is doing so under its own power. We haven’t seen the movie yet, so we have no idea what kind of hijinks it or its drivers get up to, outside of what appears in the trailer. But an opportunity to see a one-off Bronco in a movie with Johnson is a good enough excuse for us to hit the multiplex this weekend.

Apparently, it’s a good enough excuse for Ford as well. “Bronco is a vehicle that, like Mustang, is iconic and cool,” Patterson says. “And so anything we can do to associate it with other things that are also iconic and cool, like The Rock, I think is beneficial to both of us.”

Of course, other more strategic considerations also had to be made. With a new Bronco design to be made public soon(ish), Ford wasn’t exactly seeking opportunities to show a 15-year-old concept, to avoid muddying consumer comprehension. “We wanted to make sure that people understood that this isn’t what’s coming for the next Bronco,” Patterson says. “That was kind of the only downside to it, that people would see it and say, ‘OK, that must be what the new Bronco’s going to be.’ And that’s not the case.”

Even with this limitation, the brand saw large potential upside to the partnership. “We thought it could help us from an overall branding perspective,” Patterson says. “As we announce the nameplate coming back, it could help us with awareness of it and build that anticipation for when we do have the new product.”

You shouldn’t feel manipulated by this placeholder insertion. You should feel excited. Remember, a new Bronco is coming! As for that old concept, borrowed by Warner Bros. for the filming, its fate is bit less clear. When we ask Patterson if the studio had returned the vehicle, he pauses. “I don’t think so yet. At least, not as far as I know.”

2020 Ford Bronco: Facts and fantasiesWhen Donald Trump took office last year, he also grabbed the keys to a car. A very old car.

Several of them, actually. The latest presidential limousine fleet debuted on Barack Obama’s first Inauguration Day in 2009. That had many observers expecting Trump to be presented on his with a new version of the so-called “Beast,” which his predecessor described as “a Caddy, basically on a tank frame.”

One was in the works as Trump made his first trip to the White House as president, it just wasn't ready yet. But Fox News has exclusively learned that its unveiling is just around the corner.

Prototypes of the Cadillac-branded state car wrapped in black and white camouflage (to hide their details from photographers) have been spotted being tested on public roads, and at least one of the dozen or so vehicles that General Motors is set to build under a $15.8 million contract is now with the U.S. Secret Service.

“We’ve completed our task and we’ve handed over the vehicle to the customer,” Cadillac President Johann de Nysschen told Fox News. A spokeswoman for the U.S. Secret Service added that “the program to build and deploy the next generation of Presidential limousines is on track and on schedule — both in terms of vendor production and internal Secret Service post production requirements. The public can expect to see the new vehicles put into operational use late summer of this year.”

"The public can expect to see the new vehicles put into operational use late summer of this year" - U.S. Secret Service

The vehicle’s details are a closely kept national security secret, but the existing model is reportedly more of an armored truck than a luxury sedan and protected against ballistic, explosive and chemical weapons attacks. While obscured by the camouflage, the new one appears to have styling elements similar to Cadillac's flagship CT6 sedan.

One feature it almost certainly won’t share with the CT6 is Cadillac’s semi-autonomous Super Cruise system, which allows for hands-free driving on highways. Instead, it will always be driven by a highly trained agent skilled in defensive and evasive driving techniques.

Cadillac has built every presidential limousine since 1993 and didn’t face any known competition for this contract. Its American luxury counterparts, Lincoln and Chrysler, each told Fox News that they declined to submit bids this time around, but de Nysschen considers his company’s role helping to chauffer the world’s most powerful man around the world an important association for the brand.

“It’s always been part of our heritage and tradition, we have transported presidents over time, and we hope to be able to do so in the future, as well.”

FOLLOW FOX NEWS AUTOS ON TWITTER FOR MORE AUTO NEWSThe family of the Apple engineer who died in a Tesla car crash last month reportedly has hired a law firm to “explore legal options,” after believing that the carmaker’s faulty technology is what led to his death.

Walter Huang, 38, died on March 23 while driving Tesla’s Model X SUV in Northern California. It was operating on autopilot.

The law firm Minami Tamaki LLP announced Wednesday that it had been hired by Huang’s family to explore legal options, Reuters reported.

The firm said its “preliminary review” points to Tesla as being at fault over the fatal crash.

“(Our) preliminary review indicates that the navigation system of the Tesla may have misread the lane lines on the roadway, failed to detect the concrete median, failed to brake the car, and drove the car into the median,” Minami said.

Tesla, however, seemed to hold Huang responsible for the crash.

In a company blog post, Tesla said that the driver did not have his hands on the steering wheel for six seconds prior to the crash, despite several warnings from the vehicle.

Tesla requires drivers to keep their eyes on the road and hands on the wheel even when using the autopilot system.

“The crash happened on a clear day with several hundred feet of visibility ahead, which means that the only way for this accident to have occurred is if Mr. Huang was not paying attention to the road, despite the car providing multiple warnings to do so,” a Tesla spokesperson told Reuters.

Tesla also attributed the extent of the crash to a missing or damaged safety shield on the end of the freeway barrier.

“The reason this crash was so severe is because the crash attenuator, a highway safety barrier which is designed to reduce the impact into a concrete lane divider, had been crushed in a prior accident without being replaced,” Tesla said.

The family has said in the past that the vehicle was taken to the dealership prior to the crash because of problems with the autopilot feature.

Tesla reportedly had no record of Huang’s complaints.

Fox News’ Amy Lieu contributed to this report.Ram is working on two high performance pickups, including the most powerful one ever made.

Sources tell 5thGenRams.com that the automaker will soon be launching a Ram 1500 inspired by the Rebel TRX concept truck that was shown two years ago.

The report says that it will be offered with both a new 520 hp 7.0-liter V8, called the Banshee, and the 707 hp supercharged V8, currently available in the Dodge Charger and Challenger Hellcats and Jeep Grand Cherokee Trackhawk.

Unlike those street machines, the TRX Concept was conceived to take on the Ford F-150 Raptor as a high speed, off-road truck designed for flying across the desert at triple-digit speeds, with a wide stance and long-travel suspension.

Prototypes of the production version based on the recently introduced 2019 Ram 1500 have been already been spotted being tested, and the trucks are expected to arrive for the 2021 model year.If eating Chipotle everyday sounds like your dream diet, you may want to take a cue from one Florida man who says he lost 20 pounds and whittled down his body fat by dining at the Mexican grill daily for three months.

In a now-viral Reddit post, Tyler Marinelli chronicled what he ate and how he worked out to drop the weight from New Year’s Eve 2017 to March 25 of this year. With a combination of intermittent fasting and macronutrient tracking, the 26-year-old sales manager from Parkland was able to achieve his goal of slimming down in 2018.

FIRST-EVER HOMELESS SHELTER GIRL SCOUT TROOP SELLS 6,000 BOXES OF COOKIES, SURPASSING GOAL

"I would eat whatever I wanted, whenever I wanted, and however much of it I wanted. I'm talking two Domino's pizzas in one sitting,” Marinelli told Men’s Health of his old ways.

With a little research, Marinelli soon realized that the sour cream, cheese and chips that garnished his typical order from Chipotle weren’t precisely healthy, and he found inspiration to start there.

He decided to be more selective within the Chipotle menu.

“My love for Chipotle inspired the diet. It has been and always will be one of my favorite places to eat,” he told Fox News on April 12. After many crash diets, he wanted something more sustainable long term.

A post shared by Chipotle (@chipotlemexicangrill) on Apr 20, 2017 at 8:29am PDT

MASTERS CHAMP PATRICK REED VISITS CHICK-FIL-A DRIVE-THRU IN HIS GREEN JACKET

“I told myself if I could eat something I truly enjoy every single day, that it wouldn't be a diet as much as it was a lifestyle, and that's exactly what I was looking for. Eating 250g of egg whites followed by 350g of non-fat Greek yogurt is way more bearable when you know that Chipotle chicken and white rice are in your future,” he joked.

Going to the same Chipotle once a day, Marinelli says he knows all the staffers, and they now know his order by heart. Combining an order of triple chicken or triple chicken with triple white rice, he adds black beans at home to “complete the holy-trifecta.”

“What I get is a delicious, healthy bowl that complies with my diet and satisfies all my cravings,” he said.

“I have not ever gotten sick of eating Chipotle and truthfully don't think I ever will. If I need a flavor change, I simply add some tabasco to it or maybe some other spice. But in three months, I've never not looked forward to eating it,” he added.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

One nutritionist, however, told Men’s Health that Marinelli’s Chipotle diet wasn’t quite the healthiest long-term option for those eager to lose weight.

“This diet is extremely high in protein, with no mention of any fruits or vegetables,” Susan Berkman, RD, told the outlet. “While eating this way is technically calorie-controlled for weight loss, it is not a balanced eating plan and could lead to long-term complications and nutrient deficiencies.”

Marinelli, however, wouldn’t change a thing.

“All I want people to know is if I could do this, so can you. It takes control and dedication, but the results speak for themselves. Every change and streak starts with one day,” he said. “Make today that day.”Bottoms up?

A British explorer who lost his toes to frostbite has decided to donate the detached digits to a bar in the Yukon Territory — where they’ll be used to garnish the establishment’s signature (and gruesome) Sourtoe Cocktail.

Nick Griffiths, who hails from Bolton, Greater Manchester, was a participant in the Yukon Arctic Race in February, when extreme temperatures forced the 46-year-old to abandon the race and seek treatment for frostbite at a hospital.

Doctors informed Griffiths they would need to amputate three of his toes — but instead of lamenting the loss, he asked if he might be able to keep his dismembered digits so he could send them off to the Downtown Hotel in Dawson City, Yukon.

AIRLINE PASSENGER HID STASH OF COCAINE IN LIQUOR BOTTLE

“When I was going into the [operating room] I asked the surgeon if I could save my toes and told him what it was for. He found it quite amusing,” Griffiths told The Mirror.

“I wrote to the Downtown Hotel to tell them about my toes and what had happened, and they said they’d love to have them.”

The hospital granted Griffiths’ wishes and gave him back his toes — in three small jars — which Griffiths says he now plans to send off to the Downtown Hotel, if he can figure out how to do so.

“The only problem is I’m not sure you can just send amputated toes through the post,” he told the Mirror.

These won’t be the Downtown Hotel’s first amputated toes, either. The hotel’s bar has been serving up its signature Sourtoe Cocktail — basically just a shot of whiskey with a shrunken human toe in it — since 1973.

The bar has reportedly collected about 10 dismembered toes in total, and proudly displays the legend behind each on the bar’s Wall of Fame. Over the years, the bar claims that over 100,000 patrons have ordered its Sourtoe Cocktail, making them members of the Sourtoe Cocktail Club.

BUDWEISER TEAMING UP WITH JIM BEAM FOR SPECIALTY BEER

The Downtown Hotel has only a few rules for joining the “club,” too: For starters, patrons are not allowed to swallow the toe — which has happened, twice — lest they be charged a $500 fine. And secondly, customers are told “you can drink it fast, you can drink it slow, but your lips must touch the toe.”

The bar’s first toe, according to The Independent, came from a man named Louie Linken, who lost the toe to frostbite while transporting alcohol from Yukon to Alaska in the 1920s. A man named Captain Dick Stevenson found Linken’s toe preserved in a jar of alcohol in 1973, and decided to create the Downtown Hotel’s Sourtoe Cocktail on the spot.

The bar’s current “Toe Master,” Terry Lee, is now responsible for preserving the bar’s current collection of toes, which are said to be sterilized by the drying and storage process, The New York Post reports.

"When the toes arrive we put them in medical fluid,” Lee told the Mirror. “Then we drain that and chop off any fat or veins that might be hanging out.”

"We then sit them in rock salt for six weeks and they become preserved. We remove the toes from the salt each time we use them and try to rotate them each week,” he said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Lee further added that Griffiths’ offer of three new toes is “amazing,” and said he hopes the Brit has no trouble sending the toes across the pond.

"I hope he'll be able to visit and enjoy his own toe in our Sourtoe Cocktail one day."What would you do after winning a Masters Tournament? If you’re Patrick Reed, you'd take your new green jacket and head to the local Chick-fil-A for a snack.

Three days after the golfer won the coveted title, he and his wife were spotted at a drive-thru of the chicken chain in The Woodlands, Texas. The fast-food joint shared a picture of the two on its Twitter page.

IN-N-OUT SUING OVER AUSTRALIAN 'DOWN N' OUT' BURGER RESTAURANTS

“Look who we had the pleasure of serving today at our Sawdust Road Chick-fil-A Drive Thru!! Welcome home to the 2018 Masters Winner- Patrick Reed with his beautiful wife! Green jacket [check] Chick-fil-A [check].”

The couple look pretty excited in the photo. And while it might have something to do with Reed’s Sunday win, it’s more likely they can’t wait to get their hands on some tasty chicken.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS\

Reed and his wife aren’t the only people who love Chick-fil-A. According to a recent survey, the chicken chain is the preferred restaurant of teens, beating out Starbucks, McDonald’s and Chipotle.Girl Scout Troop 6000 of New York City is celebrating an extra special cookie season this year. The region’s first homeless shelter- based troop has surpassed its goal of selling 6,000 boxes of the beloved treats in their inaugural year of cookie sales.

Troop 6000 is a Girl Scout troop specially designed to serve girls in the New York City shelter system.

“A lot of people ask us, what’s the difference between us and traditional troops, and there really isn’t a difference. They’re exactly the same, just that they don’t have a home,” troop leader Giselle Burgess told Fox 5.

Burgess founded the troop in 2016, and her four daughters are now “thriving” alongside 290 fellow scouts.

TSA DENIES CLAIM THAT THEY ARE RANDOMLY SCREENING TRAVELERS' SNACKS

“I’m very excited because it’s the first time and I want to know the feeling of actually selling something,” a Girl Scout named Sinai told Fox 5 of their entrepreneurial endeavor. Selling Tagalongs, Thin Mints and America's favorite Girl Scout cookie, Samoas, out of the Kellogg’s Café in Union Square, their booming business shows no signs of slowing down.

“The biggest impact that we see ‒ and when you talk to the girls you’ll hear them say [it] ‒ is that they belong to something, they have a sisterhood within the other Girl Scouts,” Meredith Maskara, CEO of the Girl Scouts of Greater New York, told ABC News. “They talk to other girls who may be in their same situation who feel alone, and they feel like they have a stronger sense of community and belonging overall.”

5 THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT GIRL SCOUT COOKIES

Shelter resident Ruby Cornelio told Refinery29 that she is thankful her daughters Jasmine, 8, and Juwanda, 6, have the opportunity to get involved with the cause. "It's a big step to take because it teaches them responsibility, it's a good skill to learn at a young age,” she said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

“They have been wanting to do this for so long,” Corinthia Fludd, the troop's recruiting specialist, shared with AM New York. “It’s the number one thing they ask.”

Though the Girl Scouts have been selling cookies for 101 years, the first year of sales are especially sweet for Troop 6000.

"Girl Scouts has taught me I can be whoever I want to be, no matter what age, what gender," Troop member Karina told Refinery29. "I can be whatever what I want to be. I don't have to be a boy [to do that], I can be a girl."

Troop 6000’s cookies are available for purchase through their online page.Imitation might be the most sincere form of flattery, but not if In-N-Out is has something to say about it.

The beloved burger chain has reportedly filed a lawsuit over an Australian burger restaurant called Down N’ Out, claiming that the eateries are aiming to “mimic or model” themselves after the iconic California-based chain, the Sydney Morning Herald is reporting.

Hashtag Burgers — the company that owns Down N’ Out — has since denied any wrongdoing, and adds that the case is without merit and “liable to be struck out.”

A post shared by Down N' Out (@downnout_) on Dec 27, 2017 at 4:32pm PST

FAST FOOD EMPLOYEE'S 'BEAUTIFUL' ACT OF KINDNESS GOES VIRAL

In-N-Out first launched court proceedings against Hashtag Burgers in October 2017, though a judge in New South Wales has recently ordered In-N-Out to file evidence to support its claim by June 1.

According to the Herald, In-N-Out originally alleged that Down N’ Out infringed on the In-N-Out trademark, and further claimed that Down N’ Out may have misled customers into believing In-N-Out had given its "endorsement, approval, license, authority or sponsorship” to the Aussie chain.

In-N-Out does not currently operate any restaurants in Australia, but nevertheless, the chain argues it still enjoys “substantial reputation and goodwill” Down Under, citing the fact that In-N-Out has previously operated a pop-up restaurant in Australia.

Hashtag Burgers, meanwhile, has stated that In-N-Out "does not conduct its fast-food business in Australia and therefore has no goodwill in Australia." Furthermore, Down N' Out's menu includes items not found on In-N-Out's, including chicken burgers and jalapeño poppers, according to its website and social media accounts.

A post shared by Down N' Out (@downnout_) on Mar 6, 2018 at 3:29pm PST

The site also lists only two Down N' Out locations across New South Wales.

SEE IT: MCDONALD'S CUSTOMER DRIVES SUPER-TINY VAN THROUGH DRIVE-THRU

In-N-Out is reportedly seeking to bar Hashtag Burgers from operating restaurants under the Down N’ Out name, and to fork over all profits obtained by said restaurants.

Both parties have already participated in court-mandated mediation sessions, the Herald reported. The judge overseeing the case has also given Hashtag Burgers until July 27 to respond to evidence put forth by In-N-Out.

A primary hearing is set for August 10.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Down N’ Out isn’t the first burger chain In-N-Out has had a beef with in recent months; the chain also filed a trademark infringement lawsuit against Smashburger, specifically over Smashburger’s new "Triple Double" burger, which In-N-Out feels is “likely to confuse and mislead the consuming public” into believing that In-N-Out has approved or licensed the sandwiches.Domestic diva Martha Stewart has heaped another title on her plate: culinary reality game show judge.

On April 10, Discovery Networks announced that the lifestyle guru will be joining the cast of Food Network’s long-running “Chopped” as a judge, Variety reports.

FAST-FOOD WORKERS HELP POLICE CAPTURE KFC ROBBER

Though the network did not specify whether Stewart would be replacing one of the current judges ‒ Alex Guarnaschelli, Amanda Freitag, Geoffrey Zakarian, Aarón Sanchez, Maneet Chauhan, and Marc Murphy ‒ or simply joining the cast, they did confirm “Chopped” is ready to “up the ante this year.”

The author of 89 cookbooks will surely give contestants a run for their money with her “food expertise, impeccable credentials and discerning critique” at the judge’s table, The Daily Meal reports.

HEINZ RELEASES NEW MAYOCHUP CONDIMENT JUST IN TIME FOR SUMMER

While further details remain vague for now as to Stewart’s exact role in the fast-moving show, fans can surely count on Stewart to serve up advice with her signature sense of wit and charm.

Joining the 38th season of “Chopped” will mark the 76-year-old’s fourth major television venture since finding success with “Martha Stewart Living,” “Martha” and of course, “Martha & Snoop’s Potluck Dinner Party.”

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSA group of teens in Canada protesting their “sexist” school dress code just won the right to wear shorter shorts and bare their shoulders, but they are still fighting for more freedom with their wardrobe choices.

Les Carrés Jaunes, or The Yellow Squares in English, is a movement started by Joseph-François-Perrault High School students from Quebec City. On the group’s Facebook page, it says their goal is to “combat sexist dress codes,” many of which they consider “archaic.”

DOG BECOMES STAR ON GOOGLE MAPS AFTER CHASING STREET VIEW VEHICLE DOWN ROAD

“We wish to be peaceful and simply discuss with our school principals,” it says in a translation on Facebook. “This page is used to ask questions, discuss our demands, debate (in peace) of our opinions and interact with young people from high school for whom this is an important cause.”

Members of the group, who wear yellow squares pinned to their clothes to identify themselves and show support of the movement, say they want to push school administrators to reevaluate dress codes, ensuring men and women are treated the same, as well as fight the culture of rape and hypersexualization, CBC reports.

In addition to wearing shorter shorts and shoulder-bearing tops, the group has more demands for what they’d like to wear: “First, we want to be able to wear shorts that hide the buttocks, but not the thighs. We want to be able to wear leggings without a sweater that covers the buttocks. We wish to be able to wear spaghetti camisoles, sweaters that let the shoulders and back [show]. We also hope that the sweater and pants are no longer required to overlap. Moreover, we claim the right not to wear brassières and respect when we do not wear them,” it says on their Facebook page.

They do draw the line with clothing they consider inappropriate, however. “We wouldn't have the right to see underwear, not for girls or for boys. We wouldn't have the right to cleavage too deep or to aux camisoles on the sides. We wouldn't have the right to let the bottom of the buttocks,” according to the translated Facebook post.

The movement is taking off and has spread beyond the high school where it was started. Students at dozens of other schools in Quebec are getting involved, as well, according to CBC.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

The group is starting to see changes take effect, but hope they spread beyond the walls of Joseph-François-Perrault High School. “At our school, the management has already begun some steps to change the dress code. We are currently in process, and we hope that the phenomenon will happen again in several public schools!” they wrote on Facebook.Four months after President Donald Trump signed the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law, the overhaul of the tax code is still reverberating within the small-business community, according to Small Business Administration chief Linda McMahon.

Continue Reading Below

Republicans’ business-friendly tax cuts permanently cut the corporate tax rate to 21% from 35% and temporarily lowered taxes for individuals. The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) reported that small businesses optimism rose in February to 107.6, the highest level since 1983. “I’ve been to 35 states, and I’ve met with over 650 business owners,” McMahon told FOX Business’ Trish Regan on Thursday. “I’ve toured many companies. And at first, it was great anticipation for tax cuts, and now it’s, ‘Wow, it really did happen. Now my employees have more money in their paychecks. Now I’m going to be able to buy that new piece of equipment.’ ”

McMahon dismissed concerns that the Trump administration was spending too much and said the White House wants to focus on investing in economic growth before addressing the astronomically high national debt.

“You do need to make sure that you are spending wisely, and I think right now we are in investment mode, and we’ve got to continue that,” she said. “And then we'll see the growth catch up with it.” The president just signed a $1.3 trillion spending bill after $1.5 trillion in tax cuts.

Trump again touted the benefits of tax reform during a speech in the Rose Garden on Thursday afternoon after reports that optimism among American manufacturers is at record high, thanks to the recently implemented legislation.Signs of Zika infection can be seen in semen for as long as nine months, but the risk of sexual transmission appears to end in one month, according to a study published Wednesday.

The study suggests health officials have been overly cautious in advising couples to abstain from sex or to use condoms for at least six months after a male partner comes down with Zika.

The study's lead author, Dr. Paul Mead of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said the results are spurring work on new and better recommendations. But he said the study itself is not enough to change current guidelines yet.

The study was published online Wednesday by the New England Journal of Medicine.

NURSE GETS ORDAINED ONLINE TO MARRY COUPLE HOUR BEFORE CHILD'S BIRTH

Zika infections swept across Latin America and the Caribbean in 2015 and 2016, with a few very small outbreaks in the southern United States. The virus is mainly spread by tropical mosquitoes. But during the epidemic, scientists discovered some infections were spread through sex — in most cases by men infecting their partners.

In the U.S., 52 reported Zika cases have been attributed to sexual transmission, according to the CDC.

Most people infected with Zika don't get sick, while some suffer a mild illness with fever, rash and joint pain.

But infection during pregnancy can cause devastating birth defects, including microcephaly, in which a baby's skull is much smaller than expected because the brain hasn't developed properly.

In the new study, health officials looked at semen and urine samples from about 180 U.S. men who were infected with Zika and developed symptoms. Most of them caught it in 2016 while traveling overseas to outbreak areas. The men were given a $50 gift cards per submission. They submitted more than 1,300 semen samples.

Sixty of the men had genetic evidence of Zika infection in their semen.

But genetic evidence of a past infection is different from infectious concentrations of virus. The researchers looked for that, and found three men who appeared to have levels that made them contagious. The infectious-level specimens from those three men were all taken within a month of their developing symptoms, Mead said.

TODDLER WITH DAIRY ALLERGY LEFT FIGHTING FOR LIFE AFTER PIZZA HUT MIX-UP

The results may help tailor counseling for couples who are concerned about Zika, said Dr. Neil Silverman, a UCLA professor of obstetrics.

Two years ago, the risk of Zika caused panic in many couples, but the anxiety level has waned. Silverman said his clinic used to see 20 to 25 couples each month with Zika concerns, but now sees only three to five.

Though it's no longer causing large outbreaks, the virus still lurks in mosquitoes in many tropical locales and it remains an infection threat to visitors.

"Zika will be with us in the Americas. There's no particular reason to think it's going away," Mead said.next

prev

A couple’s plans to wed before their welcoming their unborn son nearly went awry when the bride-to-be’s water broke the morning of their planned nuptials. Alex and Jakob Cockriel, of Washington, were set to say “I do” at the Thurston County Courthouse on March 20, which was a week before their son’s due date, King 5 News reported.

But instead, the couple rushed to Providence St. Peter Hospital, where they were met by sympathetic nurses who planned a special surprise after hearing their story. Nurse Saisha Rebelez got ordained online and searched for wedding vows online. Rebelez then pitched the idea to the couple, while Alex labored in a hospital bathtub.

TODDLER WITH DAIRY ALLERGY LEFT FIGHTING FOR LIFE AFTER PIZZA HUT MIX-UP

“Next thing I know they came in with a veil and flowers, and somebody brought cake,” Alex told King 5 News. “There was a whole room full of people, they’re like ‘Hey, let’s go!’”

The couple exchanged vows and about an hour later, they welcomed their son, Huxton.

“I would so much rather do that over again than get married at the courthouse,” the newlywed mom told the news outlet.A 2-year-old boy with a dairy allergy was allegedly left fighting for his life after eating a pizza that was described as “vegan” at a Pizza Hut in the U.K.

Sajid Hussain claims his son, Zayaan, went into anaphylactic shock on Sunday after eating a margherita pizza, that was later found to contain cheese.

Hussain claims that he and his wife were repeatedly reassured by employees at the Blackpool Pizza Hut location that the pizza was safe for his son to eat.

“Even when we received the pizza, I wouldn’t let him eat it before reconfirming that it was definitely dairy-free. They said it was, so he ate the pizza,” Hussain told SWNS.

INSTAGRAM MODEL LEFT PARTIALLY BLIND AFTER SEEKING SURGERY TO CHANGE EYE COLOR

Minutes later, Zayaan stopped responding to his parents and began vomiting and struggling to breathe.

“While I was on the phone, Zayaan was violently sick everywhere and when the paramedics arrived his oxygen levels were really low,” Hussain told SWNS. “It actually got worse as we got to the hospital. There were talks of him having to be resuscitated.”

The boy was rushed to Blackpool Victoria Hospital, where he was treated for two days.

A Pizza Hut spokesman reportedly told SWNS that the company is in touch with the family about the incident.

“We realize it was an unacceptable situation and have already completed an internal investigation with the Hut, which found that the wrong pizza was given to the family as a result of human error," the spokesman reportedly told SWNS.

“We will share the full investigation findings with the Hussain family and are taking appropriate action at this restaurant to make sure it doesn’t happen again,” the spokesman said.

Hussain said in addition to speaking with Pizza Hut executives, he informed Environmental Health of the incident.Emergency rooms in Illinois are noticing a spike in synthetic pot users suffering from "severe bleeding," and state health officials are warning the public to remain vigilant.

The Illinois Department of Health (IDPH) issued a statement on in March announcing that at least six people in northeastern Illinois had been hospitalized after using the man-made substance -- also known as "fake weed," "K2" or "spice." On Wednesday, the number of cases climbed to 118, including three deaths, the health department reported.

"All cases have required hospitalization for symptoms such as coughing up blood, blood in the urine, severe bloody nose, and/or bleeding gums," the IDPH said. "Numerous have tested positive for brodifacoum, a lethal anticoagulant often used in rat poison."

There are now cases in at least 12 Illinois communities including Chicago, Cook County, Dupage County, Fulton County, Kane County, Kankakee County, Mason County, McLean County, Peoria County, Tazewell County, Will County and Woodford county. But officials believe that number will grow, as it's possible contaminated products have been sold across the state.

“This bleeding is not expected, at least in such a significant population so quickly." - Dr. Melissa Millewich

“Despite the perception that synthetic cannabinoids are safe and a legal alternative to marijuana, many are illegal and can cause severe illness,” IDPH Director Nirav D. Shah said in a statement on March 27. “The recent cases of severe bleeding are evidence of the harm synthetic cannabinoids can cause.”

Synthetic pot is made up of hundreds of different chemicals -- and their effect on the human body is unpredictable.

"These chemicals are called cannabinoids because they act on the same brain cell receptors as the main active ingredient in marijuana," IDPH explained, warning that the drug's impact can be life-threatening. "Synthetic cannabinoid products are unsafe. It is difficult to know what’s in them or what your reaction to them will be."

Users have reported a wide range of symptoms, from bleeding gums and bloody noses to blood in the urine. Women who are menstruating have also experienced a higher than average flow. Bleeding from the eyes and ears is also possible after use, IDPH said.

The bleeding that doctors have seen in recent days has been severe.

“This bleeding is not expected, at least in such a significant population so quickly,” Dr. Melissa Millewich, an emergency room physician at Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove, told the Chicago Tribune.

Health officials urge those who have purchased synthetic cannabinoid products within the past month -- whether it was from a convenience store or a dealer -- to not use the product. IDPH spokeswoman Melaney Arnold told the Chicago newspaper that the product is banned for sale across the state, but some manufacturers alter the "molecular makeup of the products" to “get around” the law.

Anyone who starts experiencing symptoms, including severe bleeding or bruising, should be taken to the hospital immediately, the IDPH said.As Bill Cosby is back in court in April for his sexual assault retrial, he is facing several women who have accused him of misconduct.

The embattled comedian has pleaded not guilty to accusations that he drugged and sexually assaulted a woman in his Pennsylvania home more than a decade ago. More than 60 women have accused the man once known as “America’s Dad” of sexual misconduct, but only one accuser – Andrea Constand – has brought a criminal case against Cosby. Many of the other women’s accusations fall outside the statute of limitations.

Cosby, now 80, first went to trial last year, and the case ended in a mistrial after the jury failed to deliver a verdict. In that trial, the prosecution had hoped to call many of his other accusers to testify in order to show a pattern of behavior, but only one woman was permitted. In the retrial, Montgomery County Judge Steven O'Neill ruled that five additional women are able to testify.

Cosby and his lawyers have maintained his innocence throughout the process.

Here’s a look at Dickinson and several other women, including Constand, who are appearing at Cosby's retrial.



Janice Dickinson

Model and reality television star Janice Dickinson testified that she was drugged and raped by Cosby in Lake Tahoe in 1982 when she was 27. She said she did not report the alleged assault at the time because she was worried about her career and retaliation from the comedian.

"I didn't consent to this. Here was 'America's Dad,' on top of me. A married man, father of five kids, on top of me," Dickinson said. "I was thinking how wrong it was. How very wrong it was."

The model told ET Cosby had reached out to her about meeting to discuss a potential job offer as well as her singing career. After dinner, Dickinson said Cosby gave her a glass of red wine and a pill to help with her stomach pains.

With her ET interview, Dickinson became one of the first women to go public with her allegations against Cosby.

She said her “unresolved issues” from the alleged assault have resulted in “a life of trying to hurt myself” because she was “afraid.”

Cosby's lawyers questioned why her 2002 autobiography includes a different account about their encounter. Dickinson said Cosby and his lawyers had pressured her to tell a different version about the meeting, one that didn't include sex or rape. She said she agreed because she needed the money from the book.

Dickinson sued Cosby for defamation after he and his representatives said her accusations were untrue.

Janice Baker-Kinney

Janice Baker-Kinney alleges she was assaulted by Cosby when she was 24 years old at a home in Reno, Nevada, where she was invited to what she thought was a pizza party in 1982, according to a statement published by attorney Gloria Allred.

A bartender at the time, Baker-Kinney said it wasn’t unusual for staffers at Harrah’s to get to know performers when they were in town. But when Baker-Kinney arrived at the house with a friend in 1982, she said Cosby gave her two pills.

She recalled playing a game of backgammon with the comedian before passing out. When she awoke, she was in bed with Cosby – and both were naked, she alleged.

“All this time, and for many, many years, I felt this was my fault. I took the pills from him. I justified what he did by saying to myself that none of this would have happened if I had not accepted the pills from him,” Baker-Kinney said.

She told jurors she still blames herself.

Cosby's defense has said she willingly took the drugs and even apologized to the comedian for passing out.

Chelan Lasha

Model and aspiring actress Chelan Lasha said she met Cosby when she was 17 and working at the Las Vegas Hilton. She said Cosby invited her to his suite in 1986 because he had arranged a photo shoot for her.

When she met with Cosby, Lasha told jurors he gave her what she thought was an antihistamine to combat a cold. Instead, he gave her a drug with two shots of amaretto that left her unable to move or speak, she alleged.

Lasha claimed Cosby assaulted her after she was left incapacitated.

Asked what was going through her mind, Lasha testified, invoking Cosby’s stage name on his former TV comedy show: “Dr. Huxtable wouldn't do this. Why are you doing this to me? You're supposed to help me be successful.”

“You remember, don’t you, Mr. Cosby?” she asked during her testimony.

In response, Cosby’s defense pointed to a 2007 guilty plea of filing a false police report in Arizona. The defense said the conviction “bears on her varacity.”

Lasha was one of the 35 women who appeared on the cover of New Yorker Magazine in 2015.

“I am no longer afraid. I feel more powerful than him,” Lasha told the magazine.

Lise-Lotte Lublin

Lise-Lotte Lublin, then 23, had met with Cosby through her modeling agency before she was allegedly assaulted, she said in a 2015 statement. It was during a third meeting, when Cosby asked the aspiring actress to perform improvisations in front of him, that he insisted she take two drinks.

“I told him I did not drink, but he insisted, so I drank it. I trusted him because of who he was, and how well he was respected around the world,” she said in her statement.

Shortly after the second drink, Lublin said she lost consciousness and was sexually assaulted. The alleged assault occurred in 1989.

Now a middle school teacher, Lublin told the Philadelphia Inquirer that she reported Cosby to police in Nevada in 2014 – after the statute of limitations expired.

Cosby's defense team said Lublin assumes she is a victim based on other media accounts but can only remember Cosby stroking her hair.

Heidi Thomas

When Heidi Thomas was 24, she received an offer to attend a mentoring trip to Reno, Nevada to meet Cosby. During that trip in 1984, Thomas claimed Cosby drugged and sexually assaulted her, according to the Denver Post.

The aspiring actress saw a psychiatrist after the alleged assault, but it wasn’t until years later that she told family members, including her husband and children. Thomas told the Denver Post she initially didn’t want her story to be public in order to protect her parents but changed her mind after her mother said she already heard about the alleged incident.

Thomas was the first substantive witness to testify for the prosecution in the retrial.

Thomas was pressed by the defense on her willingness to help Constand in the case, and she admitted that she once sent Constand a Facebook message.

“I just wanted her to know that everything that was being said about her and about us, that there was somebody out there who knew she was telling the truth,” Thomas said.

Andrea Constand

Cosby is in court for allegations that he gave pills to Andrea Constand, a former Temple University employee, before he sexually assaulted her.

Constand and Cosby met while she was director of operations for the women’s basketball team at Temple, Cosby’s Philadelphia alma mater. The pair “developed what [Constand] believed to be a sincere friendship,” and Constand eventually looked to the older comedian as a mentor, according to court documents.

Constand alleged Cosby made sexual advances toward her multiple times, and she turned him down. But on one specific visit to his home in 2004, Cosby gave her “three blue pills” that blurred her vision and made her feel as though she was “in and out” [of consciousness], court documents state.

Cosby then engaged in sexual acts with Constand, while she couldn’t move or speak, that she did not consent to, she claims.

The Associated Press contributed to this report."Jersey Shore" fans were shaking with excitement when their favorite cast of "hot messes" returned to MTV after a five-year hiatus. But the return of one infamous object during the "Jersey Shore Family Vacation" season premiere had "Shore" supporters scratching their heads.

Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi paid a visit to the original Shore House in Seaside Heights, New Jersey, in the first episode to retrieve a beloved -- and, at times, despised -- item from "Jersey Shore" history: the duck phone.

"Let's be real, there is no Jersey Shore without the duck phone. 🤷‍♀️#JSFamilyVacation," MTV's official "Jersey Shore" account live-tweeted as the first episode aired on April 5.

"Do you remember our times together?" Snooki whispered to the duck phone as she picked it up off the table and packed it in her bag.

'JERSEY SHORE' STAR RONNIE REVEALS WHY HE AND SAMMI 'SWEETHEART' BROKE UP

"Jersey Shore" fanatics were thrilled that the phone Snooki could never figure out was back, though some had to admit they were confused.

"Didn't the duck phone break in the last ep of Jersey Shore? How is it still there? #JerseyShoreFamilyVacation," one Twitter user asked, referring to the finale of season 6.

Life and Style Magazine was first to point out the show's "blatantly obvious continuity error," recalling that Sorrentino smashed the phone "to pieces" in 2012 after a fight with now ex-girlfriend Paula Pickard.

"The brunette beauty made a cake for her on-again, off-again lover during Season 6, only to later reveal a photo of someone's ... er ... private area sitting right on top of it," the magazine explained. "When Sitch called Paula to confront her, she pretended she couldn't hear him on the phone — hence chucking the poor duckling across the room and smashing it to pieces."

'JERSEY SHORE' STAR NICOLE 'SNOOKI' POLIZZI REVEALS HOW MUCH SHE EARNED DURING SEASON 1 OF THE MTV SERIES

Entertainment site Uproxx memorialized the duck phone in a 2012 post, "saluting the duck and its years on the show — 2009-2012. R.I.P., duck phone, R.I.P."

"It’s an impostor! Mike killed the old one..." - Twitter user

But somehow, the phone reappared for the 2018 show like nothing happened.

"And just like that the duck phone returns #jsfamilyvacation," Jenni “JWoww” Farley posted without explanation.

"But was he revived?! Didn't Mike bust him to pieces! Lol," one Twitter user replied.

"It’s an impostor! Mike killed the old one after the ball cake!" another added.

So far, the mystery continues -- but in the mean time, fans will continue celebrating the famous bird's "quacktastic" return.

"Jersey Shore Family Vacation" returned to MTV on April 5 and airs Thursdays at 8 p.m. ET.“This is Us” star Milo Ventimiglia has finally addressed his five-year break from Instagram.

The 40-year-old spoke about the decision regarding the social media platform with Us Weekly.

“I’ve always respected what social media can do, the connective tissue of sharing life moments,” he said. “What I started to see was a lot of projected ideas of how people wanted to be viewed, as opposed to what they’re seeing so I stepped away from Instagram.”

He continued, “But I came back because I was still photographing, picking up little moments in life. It just felt like, after five years of being away, to come back on nearly the same day that I left it … it felt like it was time.”

'STAR WARS' ACTOR DONNIE YEN CAST IN DISNEY'S LIVE-ACTION 'MULAN'

Ventimiglia wrote “Finito” alongside a post back on January 10, 2013 -- not posting again until Jan. 1 of this year.

Finito. A post shared by Milo Anthony Ventimiglia (@miloanthonyventimiglia) on Jan 10, 2013 at 6:02pm PST

That post includes a photo of the words, “Now Where Was I…”

“Instagram is about contributing to a community that I think is still searching for inspiration, for good, for a view on life that maybe I might offer,” Ventimiglia said. “There are other people on mine that I’ll look at and be like, ‘Oh wow, that’s interesting.’ Or you see a photograph taken in a foreign country and think, ‘Oh, I want to go there.’ I think to get back into the realm of contributing … it was time.”

Ventimiglia has shared a number of other images since his January return. The most recent post on his account is dated February 10.

Ventimiglia previously addressed leaving the popular platform in an interview with The Associated Press in 2017.

“Instagram started as a place, a collective group of photographers and artists, to just kind of share their work and their lives," he said at the time, per E! News. "And at a certain point, after doing it for three years, I saw it change... Nobody was looking at the photos, they were asking me about my acting jobs, and I kind of went, 'Oh man.'"When you’ve made it to 112 years old, there’s probably not much that surprises you.

But Richard Overton, the country’s oldest WWII veteran and possibly third oldest man in the world, was given an early birthday present last week that he’ll never forget.

MASTERS CHAMP PATRICK REED VISITS CHICK-FIL-A DRIVE-THRU IN HIS GREEN JACKET

On Saturday, Overton got to fly from his home in Austin, Texas to the nation’s capital by private jet to tour the National Museum of African American History and Culture.

The trip came together after Overton mentioned to billionaire businessman and philanthropist friend Robert F. Smith how he’d like to visit the museum someday. Smith, who’s donated $20 million to the museum, asked Overton, “What are you all doing this weekend?” and the next morning, the men were on their way, The Washington Post reports.

During his visit, Overton received a surprise call from retired four-star general and former secretary of state Colin L. Powell, who’s on the museum’s board and checked out the exhibit featuring Barack Obama, whom Overton has met a couple times.

The grandson of a slave, Overton served in the Army during WWII and fought in a segregated unit, according to Dallas News. He spent the remainder of his career working in furniture stores and later worked as a courier before retiring at 85.

He now spends most of his time hanging out on his “throne,” what his cousin calls his front porch, where he meets with the regular stream of visitors who want to meet him.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

As he approaches his 112th birthday on May 11, Overton told The Post the secret to his longevity is smoking cigars and drinking whiskey, which he still does to this day.Volkswagen Group announced on Thursday that its board replaced CEO Matthias Mueller with Herbert Diess, as the German automaker shakes up its management structure.

Continue Reading Below

The company said it will organize its brands into six groups, with another unit housing Volkswagen’s business in China. Volkswagen also replaced its executives in charge of purchasing and human resources, and Porsche chief Oliver Blume will serve on the governing body for Volkswagen Group.

The moves come as automakers launch new technology ventures such as self-driving cars and ride-sharing services. Volkswagen said its new structure will accelerate decision-making.

“In a phase of profound upheaval in the automotive industry, it is vital for Volkswagen to pick up speed and make an unmistakable mark in e-mobility, the digitalization of the automobile and transportation as well as new mobility services,” Diess said in a statement.

Diess, who previously served as an executive with BMW, has run Volkswagen’s namesake brand since 2015.

Advertisement

Mueller, the former head of Porsche, abruptly took over Volkswagen in 2015 after the CEO at the time, Martin Winterkorn, resigned amid the company’s diesel scandal. Volkswagen acknowledged that it equipped 11 million diesel cars with devices designed to skirt emissions tests.

Mueller oversaw Volkswagen at a time when global sales surged to new records in 2017. The company also booked 11.6 billion euros in full-year profits.The Defense Department is sticking by its decision to award a lucrative cloud services contract to a single source, reigniting fears that e-commerce giant Amazon could win yet another government deal.

Continue Reading Below

The Pentagon is expected to release a revised list of criteria it expects a company to meet in order to be considered for the contract, according to The Wall Street Journal. However, it will not budge on its decision to award the multibillion dollar job to one company.

The Defense Department’s pending cloud storage contract, known as Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure (JEDI), could span a decade and will likely be its largest yet – valued in the billions of dollars. The department issued draft requests for proposals to host sensitive and classified information and will likely announce the winner later this year.

Amazon, which already holds a $600 billion cloud contract with the CIA, has a robust cloud computing division, known as Amazon Web Services, which one analyst predicts could generate $60 billion in revenue over the next five years.

However, Amazon’s competitors have called for the government to reconsider its decision to award the contract to a single company, fearing the repercussions of losing out on the job for the next decade.

Microsoft released a statement last month, saying that it believes the best strategy would leverage “the innovations of multiple cloud service providers.”

Advertisement

Earlier this year, the Pentagon also dramatically scaled back the value of a contract it signed with Amazon partner REAN, to $65 million from $950 million. The original five-year agreement — which was legally challenged by Oracle – was to help accelerate agencies’ migration to the cloud.

Last month, a nonprofit group took out a full-page ad in The New York Post lobbying against awarding the newest cloud contract to Amazon. Less Government said in a blog post that the Trump administration “bizarrely [continues] to feed the Bezos hand that bites them,” referencing what it perceives as antagonistic viewpoints between the president and the billionaire tech CEO. The nonprofit is launching an ad campaign against the potential agreement, on which it is expected to spend tens of thousands of dollars, according to Politico.

President Trump has also had a few words to say about Amazon and its CEO, Jeff Bezos, throughout recent months, accusing the company on Twitter of killing American jobs, exploiting the United States Postal Service and not paying its fair share in taxes.article

JPMorgan Chase Chief Executive Jamie Dimon said on Wednesday the U.S. economy still looked "pretty good" and that there was no law that says growth cannot continue.

Continue Reading Below

But there will be a downturn at some point, Dimon told the John F. Kennedy Jr. Forum at Harvard University. Asked to assess the chances the U.S. economy would dip into a recession, he said that was a certainty. But he could not say when that might happen.

He said growth for now looked robust as more jobs were being created, wages were rising, consumer credit was strong and the rest of the world was performing relatively well. "I think it should be OK through 2018 and part of 2019," Dimon said, adding the economy looked "pretty good."

Speaking at a forum about revitalizing Detroit, Dimon added that good public policies, including streamlining certain regulations, were critical to keeping the economic engine running.

"If you have an idea to build a bridge, it takes 10 years to get the permits ... it is a disgrace and it needs to be fixed," Dimon said.

Speaking just across the river from Boston, Dimon said the bank planned to open branches there. "I said it, we are coming to Boston," Dimon said.

Advertisement

JPMorgan has already laid out plans to increase its branch network by roughly 8 percent and open about 400 new locations. Besides Boston, Dimon said the bank was eyeing Philadelphia and Washington, D.C.

Dimon said those branches would have fewer tellers but more financial advisers to help solve customers' problems. He said technology would certainly change the face of banking but that people still needed loans and financial advice. "You use technology to do a better job for clients. I am not afraid at all about technology," he said.

As head of the biggest U.S. bank, Dimon is often seen as the face of Wall Street. Lately, he has turned more of his attention to advocating for public policies to boost the economy, including infrastructure and job skills training.

JPMorgan has committed $150 million to help revitalize Detroit and Dimon has thrown his weight behind the city's mayor, Mike Duggan, who also spoke at the forum. The bank's investment is primarily focused on Detroit's neighborhoods rather than its downtown.

(Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Peter Cooney)article

John Paulson, one of the most prominent hedge-fund managers, reportedly owes one of the largest-ever personal tax bills this year.

Continue Reading Below

Paulson must pay $1 billion in federal and state taxes by April 17, according to The Wall Street Journal. The report, citing sources close to Paulson & Co., noted that the 62-year-old already paid $500 million in taxes late last year.

The massive tax bills are tied to bets Paulson made against subprime mortgages before the 2008 financial crisis. The timely investments generated a reported $15 billion in profits for Paulson’s funds and $4 billion for himself. Paulson deferred most of the taxes on those profits under a provision used by hedge-fund managers, but the tax bill has come due.

The Wall Street Journal said Paulson declined to be interviewed.

Paulson & Co.’s assets under management have dipped to $9 billion from a peak of $38 billion, according to the report. The Journal also said the hedge fund has sold some of its stake in Caesars Entertainment and other investments in order for Paulson to withdraw money.

Advertisement

It remains unclear how Paulson will pay his taxes. He could send the money by check, but it would take multiple checks to pay the full bill. The IRS only accepts checks or money orders of less than $100 million.Elon Musk, the founder and CEO of Tesla, said he has spent nights sleeping on the factory floor during a “painful” period for the electric car maker.

Continue Reading Below

Tesla has struggled with what Musk has called “production hell” since the launch of the Model 3, a sedan designed to attract mainstream car buyers. The company has aspirations to significantly increase the number of vehicles it builds, but delays have prevented Tesla from reaching its production goals. Tesla recently said Musk would focus his time on resolving the Model 3 bottleneck.

During an interview on “CBS This Morning,” Musk told host Gayle King that he “definitely” feels stress.

“We’ve been incredibly difficult and painful the last several months,” Musk said, according to a preview of the interview scheduled to air Friday. “I’m sleeping on the factory floor, not because I think that’s a fun place to sleep. You know. Terrible.”

Why is he sleeping in Tesla’s California factory? “Because I don’t have time to go home and shower,” Musk explained.

Advertisement

He added, “I don’t believe like people should be experiencing hardship while the CEO is like off on vacation.”

Tesla continues to aim for a weekly production rate of 5,000 Model 3 vehicles by the end of the second quarter. The Palo Alto, California-based automaker built 2,020 Model 3s during the final week of the first quarter, missing its goal of 2,500 units.The chief executives of America’s largest companies saw an increase in pay last year, according to a new study.

Continue Reading Below

In its initial report on CEO pay for 2017, Equilar said the top executives at the 100 biggest companies by revenue recorded a median compensation of $15.7 million, up from $15 million. CEOs that made the list earned a median pay boost of 5%, down slightly from the 6% increase reported in the prior year.

The study also looked at the ratio of CEO pay versus the median employee, a new disclosure requirement for public companies. Among the 69 companies that have reported data so far, CEOs earned $235 for every dollar earned by the median employee.

Manpower Group, a British provider of workplace solutions, had the widest gap of 2,483:1, largely because most of its employees are temporary workers. Warren Buffett had the lowest CEO-to-employee pay ratio of 2:1.

The highest-paid CEO is Broadcom’s Hock Tan. His total compensation surpassed $103 million, largely thanks to a one-time stock award that will be distributed over time. The chip maker, which recently moved its headquarters from Singapore to San Jose, California, dropped its bid to acquire rival Qualcomm in March amid opposition from the Trump administration.

Advertisement

AIG CEO Brian Duperreault ranked No. 2 on the list with 2017 compensation of $42.8 million, followed by Oracle co-CEOs Mark Hurd ($40.8 million) and Safra Catz ($40.7 million). Walt Disney CEO Bob Iger was the fifth highest-paid CEO at $36.3 million, though his compensation fell 11% year-over-year.

Rounding out the top 100 is Buffett, who earns a base salary of $100,000. The “Oracle of Omaha’s” Berkshire Hathaway booked more revenue than any other publicly traded company last year. Berkshire Hathaway’s top line grew 8% to $242.1 billion in 2017.

Apple was the runner-up in total revenue at $229.2 billion. Its CEO, Tim Cook, earned $12.8 million during the year, up 47%.

The Equilar 100 study is based on public filings from the first quarter.An off-duty firefighter in Maryland risked his life Monday to save a man from jumping off a roughly 180-foot bridge.

Ryan Glenn with the Howard County Department of Fire and Rescue Services was driving across the Chesapeake Bay Bridge when traffic began to slow. Up ahead, Glenn noticed a stopped vehicle and a crowd of people gathered near the bridge’s railing.

That’s when he saw a man standing on “what was maybe the highest point of the bridge,” Maria Hogg, a digital media specialist with the Howard County Department of Fire and Rescue Services, told Fox News on Thursday. The man, who is currently unnamed, was threatening to commit suicide.

“I said hey, there’s a lot of people who care about you. Let's not do this, come down and talk. I’m here for you, I care about you,” Glenn told WMAR-TV.

Just as Glenn was within “arms reach” of the man, he looked down at the water and then back up at Glenn.

“That’s when he did the unthinkable,” Glenn told the station.

The man then jumped from the railing to a different part of the bridge.

“He was just holding on by his grip and his feet were dangling over the water,” Glenn said.

But before the man could let go, Glenn and two other men -- one of whom was an off-duty U.S. Capitol police officer and the other an off-duty Montgomery County Fire Department member, according to Hogg -- reached over the railing, grabbed the man and pulled him back over.

“They didn’t even think,” said Hogg.

Glenn echoed this sentiment while speaking to Fox News on Thursday.

"At that point, the true rescue mode kicked in for all three of us," Glenn recalled. "At the same time, all three of us grabbed him over the railing and pinned him down to the ground."

Shortly after, the man, who Glenn said was "inconsolable," was taken to a local hospital.

"It was a pretty tense situation; I was extremely nervous. I could feel my heartbeat in my throat,” Glenn added.

"[Glenn] is a lifesaver. He did what he thought was right." - Maria Hogg

Hogg said both Glenn and the fire department had received a “crazy outpouring of support from all over the region” after sharing the news of the heroic act on Wednesday.

This isn’t the first time an off-duty firefighter with the Howard County Department of Fire and Rescue Services has saved someone’s life. Hogg recalled a time a couple of years ago one of their firefighters saved a child from drowning in a frozen lake.

“This is just a part of their lifestyle,” she said.

While that may be true, “he [Glenn] is a lifesaver,” Hogg added. "He did what he thought was right.”

Saving the man has been "a humbling experience," the firefighter said.

“The three of us were just lucky to be in the right place at the right time,” he said. “I believe any good person would’ve done the same.”President Donald Trump's pick to be America's top diplomat is playing down expectations for a breakthrough deal on ending North Korea's nuclear weapons program at a planned summit with the North's leader.

Mike Pompeo, the current CIA director, told members of the Senate Foreign Relations considering his nomination Thursday that "no one is under any illusions that we will reach a comprehensive agreement through the president's meeting" with Kim Jong Un in May or early June.

The summit could lay out conditions that would allow the leaders to decide whether a deal was possible, Pompeo said. That could "set us down the course to achieve a diplomatic outcome that America and the world so desperately need," he said.

At the White House, Trump's new national security adviser held talks with Japanese and South Korean officials. John Bolton, a major player in preparing Trump for his historic get-together with Kim, has in the past advocated military force against North Korea and other U.S. adversaries.

Pompeo described a goal of getting the North Korean leadership to agree to "step away from its efforts to hold America at risk with nuclear weapons."

He tried to make the case that he could transition from spy chief to diplomat, asserted he was not a "hawk" and said he had never supported efforts to remove North Korea's rulers. Pompeo agreed with Sen. Ed Markey, D-Mass., that it would be "catastrophic" if the U.S. initiated an attack against North Korea, but he didn't rule out the possibility of military action.

Bolton met with Chung Eui-yong, the South Korean official who last month conveyed Kim's offer to Trump to talk about "denuclearization" and halt nuclear and missile tests. Chung was then given the unexpected duty of announcing to journalists in the White House driveway Trump's surprise agreement to hold a meeting.

South Korea's president, Moon Jae-in, is due to hold his own summit with Kim on April 27.

Bolton also held talks with Japan's Shotaro Yachi, whose prime minister, Shinzo Abe, will meet Trump at his Florida resort on Tuesday.

Abe has fostered personal ties with Trump and has been a strong supporter of the U.S.-led campaign of sanctions against North Korea to compel it to negotiate on its nuclear program after a long hiatus in talks.

During his second trip to Mar-a-Lago, Abe will be seeking reassurance that Japan's interests won't be overlooked at the Trump-Kim summit.

The Japanese leader has said he's worried that North Korean security threats to Japan, including short- and medium-range missiles, may not be discussed, and that Trump will focus on intercontinental ballistic missiles that threaten America.

The differing perspectives of the allies, which both host U.S. forces but have sharp historic differences, could complicate Washington's management of policy on North Korea.

A spokesman at the National Security Council said Chung and Yachi are the first national security advisers to meet with Bolton since he took office this week.

Trump on Thursday praised the role of China, currently in a standoff on trade tariffs with the U.S., in pressuring North Korea. He predicted his meeting with Kim would be "terrific."

"I think we're going with a lot of respect, and we'll see what happens. So we've come a long way. But China has really helped us at the border, and we appreciate it," Trump said at a meeting with governors and senators on trade and agriculture at the White House.

____

This story has been corrected to reflect that the Japanese prime minister is to meet Trump at Mar-a-Lago, not the White House, next week.Five years after two brothers who had been living in America for about a decade bombed the Boston Marathon, federally funded community programs to prevent attacks by homegrown extremists are barely underway and face an uncertain future.

Those projects, which grew out of a strategy developed during the Obama administration, are aimed at steering young people away from extremism.

But they have been hobbled almost from the start by suspicion and mistrust among Muslims, who complain they are being singled out. And it's unclear whether the strategy will continue to be funded under the Trump administration.

In Massachusetts, the Somali Community and Cultural Association abruptly withdrew from a nearly $500,000 program with Boston police and two other organizations just as the work was beginning in earnest late last year. Another Somali group has since stepped in to take its place.

Deeqo Jibril, founder of the Somali Community and Cultural Association, said she has concerns about concentrating terrorism prevention efforts on the Somali community.

"Extremism, radicalization and violence exists across cultures, religions and ethnicities," Jibril wrote in an October email in withdrawing from the program. "Focusing efforts specifically on one subgroup will ultimately create deeper divisions in our fractured society, doing more harm than good."

Chad Wood, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, which is funding the efforts, stressed the agency's approach to preventing terrorism isn't based on race or religion but instead seeks to develop "relationships and partnerships" in communities targeted by terrorists for recruitment.

"Local leaders have the flexibility to tailor their domestic terrorism prevention programs based on the unique challenges and demographics of the communities they serve," he said.

Created in 2011, the Countering Violent Extremism strategy was seen as a way to short-circuit extremism before it exploded in violence.

The Obama administration called on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to do more to remove extremist propaganda. It encouraged local and federal law enforcement agencies to provide training to school and public health officials about terrorist recruitment and other online threats.

And it provided grants to universities, nonprofit organizations and other local institutions to develop after-school programs and sports and community service projects geared toward young people who might otherwise be drawn to violence.

Last June, 26 programs were awarded $10 million in grants, the largest pot of money doled out to local communities yet under the program.

Some Muslim leaders are troubled by the strategy.

A number of Muslim organizations turned down the money soon after President Donald Trump took office, including Leaders Advancing and Helping Communities, of Dearborn, Michigan ($500,000), and Ka Joog, a Somali organization in Minneapolis ($500,000).

In Los Angeles, civil rights groups such as Asian Americans Advancing Justice and the Council on American-Islamic Relations have been demanding more details on how the city intends to use its $425,000 grant.

Logan Ebel, a program manager at the nonprofit Nashville International Center for Empowerment in Tennessee, which works with refugees and immigrants and received a $445,110 grant, said: "There are still people in the community who think we're up to something and that our intentions are not just."

The Trump administration, meanwhile, has not proposed authorizing any further grants as it continues to review the program and intends to submit its own terrorism prevention strategy to Congress this year, Wood said.

Despite local opposition, Boston's Youth and Police Initiative Plus program is set to begin this month with the first of six week-long "dialogues" between police and Somali youth over the next two years.

Like programs in Minneapolis and other cities, the Boston effort is motivated by concern over young Somali men traveling overseas to fight for al-Qaida and the Islamic State group.

Boston hasn't had to deal with that phenomenon yet, and extremism and terrorist recruitment won't be directly addressed unless youths bring it up, says Capt. Haseeb Hosein, a district commander who has been promoting the program as an active member of the city's Muslim community.

"One of my goals is that the officers will understand the Somali community," he said. "We're going to focus on their day-to-day life and the issues that every youth is dealing with — school, bullying, assimilation, culture, language."

The 2013 marathon attack, which killed three people and wounded more than 260, was carried out by two Muslim brothers of Chechen descent who emigrated from the former Soviet Union.

Federal money under the Countering Violent Extremism program is also helping Massachusetts inmates safely re-enter society. With the help of its $500,000 grant, a maximum-security prison has hired counselors to work with inmates on their behavior and coping skills in the months before and after they get out.

Arno Michaelis, a former skinhead leader in the Milwaukee area, said that if such efforts had been around in the 1980s and '90s, he might have left the white supremacist movement much sooner.

"Giving kids an opportunity to address the injustices they see in the world in a healthy way," Michaelis said, "is the most potent prevention of extremism."

___

Follow Philip Marcelo at twitter.com/philmarcelo. His work can be found at https://www.apnews.com/search/philip_marceloInvestigators say a woman's obituary helped federal agents capture her fugitive son nearly four decades after he escaped from an Oklahoma prison.

The U.S. Marshals Service says 58-year-old Stephen Michael Paris was arrested without incident Thursday at an office in Houston where he worked under a pseudonym.

The agency says investigators tracked him down in Texas after a newspaper obituary for his mother listed a son in Houston named Stephen Michael Chavez. Fingerprints confirmed his identity.

Paris escaped from the Jess Dunn Correctional Center in Muskogee, Oklahoma, in October 1981. He escaped after serving about 19 months of a nine-year sentence for drug possession and distribution.

He was also featured on the Oklahoma Department of Corrections' "Most Wanted" list.next

prev

Many Canadians are wearing hockey jerseys to honor the 16 players and team personnel who died after a semi-trailer collided with the youth team's bus.

People showed up at work and schools across Canada decked out in sports jerseys Thursday as part of a "Jersey Day" commemoration inspired by a group of British Columbia hockey moms to send a message of support for the families of the dead.

At Ontario's legislature, members of the provincial parliament from all parties wore jerseys. A number of Toronto schools posted photographs on social media of students wearing their jerseys.

The team from Humboldt, Saskatchewan, was on its way to a playoff game Friday when its bus collided with the big truck. Thirteen people were injured.

The first of 16 funerals began Thursday.Mexico’s most popular holiday hotspot has become overrun with drug gangs, as violence in the tourist party town escalates to unprecedented levels.

Cancun has seen 14 murders in just 36 hours — the highest ever in the country’s recorded history, according to Noticaribe.

The latest violence on April 4 saw 14 people killed and at least five others left with gunshot wounds, in six separate instances in the party town.

The figures surpass Cancun’s previous record of nine killings in a day, which was set on Nov. 25, 2004.

CANCUN MURDER SURGE FUELED BY ALLEGED DRUG QUEEN'S TURF WAR

More than 100 people have been slaughtered in Cancun since the beginning of 2018, as Mexico’s cartels continue to spread fear through the country.

The Mexican tourist hotspot’s growing crime wave threatens to leave it a ghost town, with most murders in Cancun remaining unsolved.

Amid a thriving drug trade and widespread extortion, fear is rampant and threatens to have a spillover effect on the country’s multibillion-dollar tourism industry.

Read more from The Sun.next

prev

Faced with the threat of a U.S. strike on Syria, Russian President Vladimir Putin has a dilemma: allow U.S. missiles to hit Moscow's ally without a response or risk a military clash with the United States.

If driven into a corner by a U.S. attack, Putin will be unlikely to sit back. Inaction would threaten his hard-won gains in Syria, dent Russia's prestige and erode his tough-guy image.

"It's our president who decides the fate of the world!" ultranationalist leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky declared on Russian state television.

During past crises in recent years, Putin has responded by overturning the chessboard.

When Ukraine's Kremlin-friendly leader was driven from power in February 2014 by mass protests, Putin reacted to what he described as a U.S.-driven coup by immediately sending troops to overtake Crimea and then annexing the Black Sea peninsula.

Commenting later on those developments, he said that he was ready to put Russia's nuclear forces on high alert in case of "the most negative developments" amid tensions with the West over Crimea. He noted that he bluntly warned his Western counterparts that Russia was ready to fight for Crimea.

Moscow followed up on that by supporting separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine, and it didn't budge in the face of several waves of crippling U.S. and European Union sanctions.

When Syrian President Bashar Assad's government was teetering on the brink of collapse in 2015, it took Putin just a few weeks to mount a military campaign that saved Russia's longtime ally and eventually turned the tide of war in his favor.

In recent documentaries, Putin has shared candid memories of his youth in a working-class neighborhood of St. Petersburg — then known as Leningrad. He said he learned lessons there that have lasted a lifetime.

"The streets of Leningrad taught me 50 years ago that when a fight is inevitable, you must strike first," was one of the recollections.

Another telling episode was an encounter with a rat in a seedy entrance of his crumbling apartment building. After he cornered the rodent, it turned back on him and attacked.

"She ran forward and chased me, jumping from one flight of stairs to another and even tried to leap on my head," he recalled in an interview for a recent documentary. "You shouldn't try to corner anyone."

A year ago, Putin was nurturing hopes for better ties with the U.S. under President Donald Trump. After a purported chemical weapons attack in Syria, he allowed a U.S. missile strike on a Syrian air base go unanswered, apparently trying to leave the door open for better relations with Washington. Moscow, which had received an advance tip by the U.S. to get its servicemen out of harm's way, limited its response to angry statements of protest.

With Kremlin expectations of a cozy relationship with Trump fizzling amid U.S. investigations into allegations of Russia's meddling in the 2016 U.S. election, Putin is unlikely to show such tolerance now.

Weeks before a purported chemical attack by the Syrian government on April 7, the Russian military warned the West against what it described as false claims of chemical weapons use to strike Syrian facilities.

The head of the Russian military's General Staff, Gen. Valery Gerasimov, warned last month that a U.S. strike would threaten Russian military personnel in Syria and draw a Russian counterstrike against both U.S. missiles and the ships and aircraft launching them.

The statement signaled Moscow's readiness to protect its ally even if it entails a direct clash with the U.S.

With tensions running high, Russian warships sailed out of their base in the Syrian port of Tartus in what retired Gen. Vladimir Shamanov, the head of foreign affairs committee in the lower house of the Russian parliament, described as a maneuver to avoid a possible U.S. blow.

Russia has several dozen warplanes at Hemeimeem air base in Syria, along with an array of state-of-the-art air defense missile systems and the Bastion missile systems protecting the coast. The missiles have a range of up to 450 kilometers (280 miles).

In case of escalation, Russia could use air bases of its ally Iran to deploy more aircraft closer to Syria.

Russia has used Syria as a testing ground for its new weapons, including some long-range missiles. These included the sea-launched Kalibr and air-launched Kh-101 cruise missiles; both can be fired from the Caspian Sea and other areas in western Russia.

Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said the top priority is to avert war in Syria and doesn't rule out the possibility of a U.S.-Russian conflict.

He told reporters after a closed emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council on Thursday that "the danger of escalation is higher than simply Syria," adding: "We hope that there will be no point of no return — that the U.S. and their allies will refrain from military action against a sovereign state."

Reflecting the mounting tensions, Russian television and other media offered tips for the population in case of a nuclear attack. Prime-time talk shows on Russian state TV featured senior lawmakers and military experts engaging in heated discussions of possible scenarios of a clash between Russia and the U.S., all the way to an all-out nuclear war.

Military expert Mikhail Khodarenok argued that Russia must retaliate to any U.S. strike, saying a failure to do so will badly dent its reputation.

"It will mean geopolitical shame and colossal reputational losses. We can't risk losing our face," he said on Rossiya state television. "America, get ready for our old reliable 10-megaton nuclear warheads."

Alexei Pushkov, the head of the information affairs committee in the upper house of parliament, struck a more moderate tone, saying that Russia has powerful conventional weapons to fend off a U.S. attack in Syria.

"We must avoid a nuclear conflict," Pushkov said. "We must protect our ally Syria without falling off a nuclear precipice."next

prev

France has proof that the Syrian government launched chlorine gas attacks and has crossed a line that could prompt French airstrikes, President Emmanuel Macron said Thursday.

Macron did not specify whether France is planning military action against Syrian President Bashar Assad's government. He said he has been talking regularly this week with U.S. President Donald Trump about the most effective response.

The U.S., France and Britain have been consulting about launching a military strike. Trump tweeted Wednesday that missiles "will be coming" and on Thursday tweeted that an attack "could be very soon or not so soon at all!"

Speaking on TF1 television, Macron said that France would not tolerate "regimes that think everything is permitted."

He previously said any French action would target Syria's chemical weapons abilities.

Syrian opposition activists and medics say a suspected gas attack last week in Douma killed more than 40 people. The Syrian government has denied the allegations.

Macron's office and the French military aren't commenting on pending plans. A military operation would be a big deal for Macron, his first military action as president, at a time of heightened domestic tensions over labor law changes.

Macron doesn't need parliamentary permission to launch an operation.

French forces have not directly targeted Syrian government sites before, but France has supported rebel forces since early in the fighting that began in 2011.

Geopolitics specialist Dominique Moisi, a senior adviser at the Montaigne Institute think tank in Paris, said "we have said that we were not allowing the use of chemical weapons, that this was a red line ... Not to react is to prove to the rest of the world that what we say does not matter."

Moisi stressed the "risk of escalation" of the conflict amid increasing concerns about a U.S.-Russia proxy war.

"So striking at Syria is not a good solution, but doing nothing after the use of chemical weapons is even worse," he said.

In London, British Prime Minister Theresa May summoned her Cabinet back from vacation Thursday to discuss military action against Syria.

May has indicated she wants Britain to join in any U.S.-led strikes in response to the attack in Douma. She has said all the indications" are that Assad's forces were responsible and the use of chemical weapons "cannot go unchallenged."

Chancellor Angela Merkel said Germany won't participate in possible military action in Syria, but supports sending a message that the use of chemical weapons is unacceptable, following a phone call Thursday with Macron.

France already has some 1,100 troops involved in its Operation Chammal, created in 2014 to fight Islamic State extremists in Iraq and extended in 2015 to Syria, as part of the U.S.-led coalition. Multiple Islamic State retaliatory attacks have targeted French soil, including just last month.

French warplanes operate out of French bases in Jordan and Al Dhafra in United Arab Emirates. France also has a naval base in Abu Dhabi, and an aviation center in Qatar at the U.S. air base at Al Udeid. France has 650 troops based in the United Arab Emirates overall.

In addition, a French frigate is stationed off of Lebanon in international waters.

In Syria, French warplanes carried out 23 sorties in late March and early April but fired no strikes, as part of support for Syrian opposition forces fighting in the last pockets of IS control.

___

Chris Den Hond in Paris, Jill Lawless in London, Geir Moulson in Berlin contributed to the story;San Francisco 49ers linebacker Reuben Foster was charged Thursday after he allegedly dragged his girlfriend by her hair, threw her out of the house and repeatedly punched her, authorities said.

Foster, 24, was charged with felony domestic violence following an incident that occurred on Feb. 11 with his live-in girlfriend, who authorities did not identify. The victim flagged down a stranger’s car driving on Shannon Road in Los Gatos, Calif., and had the driver call 911.

The girlfriend told police she was physically attacked after an argument at the couple’s home.

“The victim told responding sheriff’s deputies and Los Gatos police that Foster dragged her by her hair, physically threw her out of the house, and punched her in the head 8 to 10 times,” Santa Clara County District Attorney’s office said in a news release.

The 28-year-old woman was taken to the hospital and treated for her injuries that included bruises and a ruptured eardrum.

Police searched Foster’s home and found a Sig Sauer 516 rifle and large capacity magazine, which are both illegal to possess in California.

Foster also faces charges of forcefully attempting to prevent a victim from reporting a crime and possession of an assault weapon.

“Our focus is on holding accountable those who hurt their intimate partners. Our Office handles between four and five thousand domestic violence cases each year. We only hope that this case illuminates the tragic regularity of the rest,” prosecutor Kevin Smith said in a news release.

Foster faces more than 11 years in prison if convicted.

The football player was seen as one of NFL’s most promising young players. He started in all 10 games for the 49ers last year and named NFL’s Defensive Rookie of the month last November.

Foster, however, had another run-in with the law when he was arrested in January for marijuana possession in Alabama, AL.com reported.The Miami Marlins may have relocated to the Caribbean sometime after Derek Jeter and company’s acquisition of the organization and no one batted an eye.

While the Marlins are still playing home games in downtown Miami, the team is trying to get out of a local lawsuit by claiming that the franchise is a corporate citizen of the British Virgin Islands, the Miami Herald reported Monday.

Miami-Dade County and the city of Miami filed a lawsuit in February against former team owner Jeffrey Loria over his $1.2 billion sale of the franchise to the group led by Jeter and businessman Bruce Sherman, according to the Herald.

The county and the city are seeking a share of Loria’s profits from the sale and Jeter’s lawyers insist that the complaint is solely between the former Marlins owner and government officials, the newspaper reported. The suit named the Loria group and the Jeter group, claiming that the new owners should be held “contractually responsible” over the old owner’s decision to stiff the city and the county.

Loria was supposed to leave $50 million of the sale proceeds in escrow to solve any suit that may come forth after he was gone. The Miami Herald reported that Loria claimed he made no profit from his $1.2 billion sale despite buying the team in 2002 for about $158.3 million and using mostly government funding to build Marlins Park.

The Marlins have decided to argue that part of Marlins Teamco, the ownership group, is a corporation. Abenue Ltd., based in the British Virgin Islands, owns a part of Marlins Holdings LLC, which owns Marlins Teamco, the group formed by Jeter and Sherman among others to buy the franchise, according to Sports Illustrated. The Marlins’ lawyers argued, because of Abenue Ltd’s location, the case should be decided by a federal arbitrator over a local judge.

The county said in a rebuttal that even if one of the group’s members is a U.S. citizen, then the entire group is a U.S. citizen, according to the Miami Herald.

"This is the most local of disputes, involving a locally-negotiated contract made between local parties under local law and requiring local performance," the county’s lawyers said.The Winder, Georgia, Police Department has uploaded a video showing an officer announce his retirement after 20 years serving the community.

In the video, Officer Wayne Samples sits in his police car and you can see the emotion on his face.

"It's been an honor and privilege working with some of the finest people in public safety," Samples said.

Samples thanked all the people who gave his guidance along the way.

"There's a quote that I love by Edmund Burke that says something to the effect of 'all that's necessary for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing," he said. "The men and women in law enforcement are the good guys. We are the thin blue line. We're that stands between good and evil."

"God bless you all. 110 is out of service," he continued.

Read more on Fox 26 Houston.A Kentucky man who died last summer willed a local animal shelter just over $190,000, according to local reports.

Joseph “Tony” Bennett left Madison County Animal Shelter in Berea $190,897.27, LEX 18 reported.

Michael Fore, Bennett’s attorney, presented a check to Madison County Judge Executive Reagan Taylor during the county’s fiscal court meeting on Tuesday morning, according to WKYT.

The money will be used to start the Bennett Saves Initiative, which will partner with local veterinarians to spay and neuter animals that come into the shelter, according to WKYT.

“We will be able to account for 100 percent of all of our animals that are adopted through our shelter, which averages about 650 to 700 animals per year," Scott Tussey, director of the animal shelter, told the news station.

Before the donation, the shelter did not have the means to spay and neuter all of its animals. Instead, new pet owners would receive a $75 voucher to offset the cost of the surgery.

Now, however, with the funds from Bennett's estate, the shelter plans to have all animals fixed before they are adopted out, Tussey told Fox News on Thursday.

"Hopefully it will generate others to donate like this," he added.



"Obviously we were ecstatic,” Taylor said of the donation, according to LEX18. "Through his gift in the county, we're going to try and increase our spay and neuter program with these funds," he added.

Bill Grise, Bennett’s former neighbor, described the man as "very nice, very quiet, very humble." He added that he was “shocked” when he heard about the donation.article

Technology companies, banks and industrial companies all rose Thursday as investors got ready for big banks to announce their first-quarter results and let go of some of their concerns about the trade dispute between the U.S. and China.

Continue Reading Below

Big tech companies like Apple and Microsoft, the market's leaders over the last year, rose again. Industrial companies like Boeing and Caterpillar gained ground as well, with airlines climbing after Delta reported solid results in the first quarter. Bond prices dropped and interest rates rose, which helped banks.

Friday morning, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and PNC Financial Services will report their first batch of quarterly results since last year's corporate tax cut went into effect. Alicia Levine, head of global investment strategy at BNY Mellon Investment Management, said that's giving investors something new to focus on after almost six weeks of worrying about a trade war.

"Part of the reason that markets were strong this week is in anticipation of perhaps better than expected earnings," she said. Levine said she thinks companies are likely to beat Wall Street's expectations thanks in part to the lower tax rate.

The S&P 500 index gained 21.80 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,663.99. The Dow Jones industrial average added 293.60 points, or 1.2 percent, to 24,483.05. The Nasdaq composite climbed 71.22 points, or 1 percent, to 7,140.25. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks advanced 10.52 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,557.33.

The market has been jittery as investors worried about tariffs and other barriers to trade. Investors may have been pleased to hear that, according to a group of legislators, President Donald Trump asked advisers to explore the possibility of the U.S. rejoining trade talks with 11 Pacific nations. Those countries formalized a deal last month after Trump rejected the Trans-Pacific Partnership, an earlier agreement that involved the U.S.

Advertisement

The S&P 500, a benchmark that is used by many index funds, has fallen for three of the last four weeks, but it's up 2.3 percent so far this week as investors felt new proposals by Chinese President Xi Jinping could help avert a trade war. On Thursday China's government denied that Xi was trying to resolve the dispute and said negotiations with the U.S. aren't possible right now.

Levine, of BNY Mellon, said the tariffs the U.S. and China have proposed won't stop the growth of the U.S. economy, but they could cause real pain for some industries and investors sold stocks in response to that.

"If you use steel and aluminum, you might be less likely to open up another plant if you're a manufacturer," she said. "You might be less likely to raise wages."

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.84 percent from 2.79 percent. That helped banks because higher yields mean they can make more money from mortgages and other types of loans. Big dividend stocks like utilities and household goods companies fell, as investors see them as an alternative to bonds and they are less interested in buying them when yields rise.

Home goods retailer Bed, Bath & Beyond plunged after it gave a weak forecast for the fiscal year. The company also said it expects its earnings to decline next year and its stock fell 20 percent to $17.21. Online rival Amazon gained 1.5 percent to $1,448.50.

Oil prices continued to trade at three-year highs. Benchmark U.S. crude rose 0.4 percent to $67.07 a barrel in New York. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 0.1 percent to $72.02 a barrel in London.

Precious metals prices tumbled. Gold dropped 1.3 percent to $1,341.90 an ounce and silver fell 1.8 percent to $16.47 an ounce. Copper lost 1.7 percent to $3.06 a pound.

Wholesale gasoline lost 0.6 percent to $2.05 a gallon. Heating oil dipped 0.4 percent to $2.08 a gallon. Natural gas rose 0.4 percent to $2.69 per 1,000 cubic feet.

Bristol-Myers Squibb fell and Pfizer rose after an analyst for Citi Investment Research said a deal between the two drugmakers isn't likely to happen. Analyst Andrew Baum said he met with Pfizer's top executives Wednesday and don't want to buy Bristol-Myers or any other big company. Bristol-Myers lost 2.2 percent to $58.84, giving it a market value of $96 billion. Pfizer rose 1.5 percent to $36.52.

Drugmaker Mallinckrodt dropped after a former employee filed a whistleblower lawsuit against the company. Rasvinder Dhaliwal said Mallinckrodt asked her to mislead an insurance company so it would cover Acthar gel, a drug that brings in more than one third of Mallinckrodt's revenue, and said an executive acknowledged the company misled payers about what Acthar is made of.

The lawsuit says she had numerous other concerns about potentially illegal or improper behavior, but the company retaliated against her for bringing them up and ultimately fired her last month.

Mallinckrodt said it "vehemently disagrees with the allegations" and will defend itself in court. Its stock fell 6.8 percent to $13.89.

The dollar rose to 107.23 yen from 106.95 yen. The euro fell to $1.2329 from $1.2362.

The DAX in Germany rose 1 percent and France's CAC 40 added 0.6 percent. The FTSE 100 in Britain rose less than 0.1 percent. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index dipped 0.1 percent while the Kospi in South Korea ended 0.1 percent lower. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.2 percent.

____

AP Markets Writer Marley Jay can be reached at http://twitter.com/MarleyJayAP . His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/marley%20jayarticle

The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):

Continue Reading Below

4 p.m.

Stocks are closing solidly higher as the market adds to its big gains from earlier in the week.

Technology companies and banks contributed the most to the gains Thursday. Microsoft added 1.9 percent and JPMorgan Chase rose 2.5 percent.

Delta Air Lines jumped 2.9 percent and BlackRock rose 1.5 percent after each reported strong results in the latest quarter.

Bed, Bath & Beyond plunged 20 percent after giving a weak forecast for its fiscal year.

Advertisement

The S&P 500 rose 21 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,663.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 293 points, or 1.2 percent, to 24,483. The Nasdaq composite climbed 71 points, or 1 percent, to 7,140.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.83 percent.

___

11:45 a.m.

U.S. stocks are climbing in midday trading as technology companies, banks and industrial companies rally.

Delta Air Lines and BlackRock are rising Thursday after reporting strong results in the first quarter. Delta and BlackRock each rose 2.3 percent.

Big technology companies are also making big gains. Intel jumped 2.9 percent and chipmaker Micron Technology rose 3.8 percent.

Bed, Bath & Beyond plunged 19 percent after giving a weak forecast for its fiscal year.

The S&P 500 rose 21 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,663.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 286 points, or 1.2 percent, to 24,472. The Nasdaq composite climbed 70 points, or 1 percent, to 7,139.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.82 percent.

___

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening solidly higher on Wall Street as the market regains ground following a loss the day before.

Several companies were moving higher after reporting encouraging results. Delta Air Lines and fund manager BlackRock each rose 1.8 percent.

Technology companies and banks were also among the early gainers. Intel rose 1.7 percent and Citigroup climbed 1.3 percent.

The S&P 500 rose 16 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,658.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 212 points, or 0.9 percent, to 24,401. The Nasdaq composite climbed 46 points, or 0.7 percent, to 7,115.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.81 percent.article

Global stock markets recovered their poise Thursday and the price of oil came off three-year highs as investors digested U.S. President Donald Trump's defiant comments on the Middle East conflict.

Continue Reading Below

KEEPING SCORE: Britain's FTSE 100 was down less than 0.1 percent to 7,257 and France's CAC 40 edged 0.3 percent higher to 5,290. Germany's DAX gained 0.4 percent to 12,348. Wall Street was poised for small gains on the open. Dow futures rose 0.4 percent and the broader S&P 500 futures were up 0.5 percent.

TRUMP TALKS TOUGH: In a tweet, Trump suggested that he wanted to retaliate against Russia after the recent suspected chemical attack in Syria. Separately, Saudi Arabia said it intercepted missiles fired by rebels in Yemen as well as drones that targeted an oil facility. The prospect of escalating conflict in the Middle East has sparked fears about tighter oil supplies, driving crude prices to their highest since December 2014.

ASIAN SCORECARD: Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index dipped 0.1 percent to close at 21,660.28 while the Kospi in South Korea ended 0.1 percent lower at 2,442.71. Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 0.2 percent to 30,831.28 and the Shanghai Composite in mainland China slid 0.8 percent to 3,180.16. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 lost 0.2 percent to 5,815.50. Indexes in Taiwan, Singapore and Indonesia also lost ground but shares in Thailand and the Philippines rose.

FED MINUTES: At their most recent meeting in March, Federal Reserve policymakers said they felt the U.S. central bank might have to raise interest rates faster than expected to keep up with quickening economic growth and rising inflation that's coming close to their 2 percent target, according to the latest minutes. Officials otherwise stuck mainly to the same policy language they've used since they began raising rates in December 2015, gradually dialing back the extraordinarily loose monetary policy that had supported financial markets. Some analysts also noted that the meeting was held before recent U.S.-China trade tensions flared up, which could have prompted some officials to ease their views.

ENERGY: Oil futures eased after hitting a three-year high. Benchmark U.S. crude lost 11 cents to $66.71 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract climbed 2 percent to settle at $66.82 a barrel on Wednesday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, shed 18 cents to $71.88 a barrel in London.

Advertisement

CURRENCIES: The dollar rose to 107.12 yen from 106.79 yen in late trading Wednesday. The euro slipped to $1.2345 from $1.2369.article

As its strategic review stretches into a ninth month, General Electric Co. is exploring a public offering for one of its divisions and discussing hybrid deals with public companies to combine assets, according to people familiar with the matter.

Continue Reading Below

Rather than straight asset sales, the hybrid deals would leave GE shareholders with stakes in multiple public companies. The possibilities include spinning off a division to investors or combining a division with a smaller public company in a way that avoids a big tax bill. Such moves would give the industrial conglomerate and its shareholders a chance to participate in the turnaround of struggling businesses rather than risk selling at inopportune times.

GE Transportation could be a model, according to some of the people. GE is now unlikely to sell the business and is preparing for an initial public offering or spinoff of the division, which makes diesel freight locomotives, some of the people said. The unit could be merged with another firm that would leave GE investors in control of a new public company, one person said.

GE, whose share price has tumbled by more than half over the last 12 months, will be facing questions about its portfolio review in coming weeks. The company reports first-quarter results on April 20 and hosts its annual shareholder meeting the following week. Chairman and CEO John Flannery is the headliner at a major industrial conference on May 23.

"The pressure on GE to announce some sort of break-up is very high," analyst Scott Davis of Melius Research wrote in a note to clients last month. While he said asset sales are going slower than investors expected, Mr. Davis expects spinoffs to be more likely.

In October, Mr. Flannery promised to sell $20 billion worth of assets. So far GE has announced a handful of deals totaling less than $4 billion. The company's century-old GE Lighting division has been on the auction block for more than a year. In January, Mr. Flannery said he was considering separate structures for the core divisions -- health care, aviation and power -- in what would amount to a breakup of the industrial giant.

Advertisement

Rather than breaking off units to make smaller companies, GE is considering deals that would build bigger businesses that are better positioned, the people familiar with the matter said. They point to Baker Hughes, an oil-field services company that is majority owned by GE, and the Dow- DuPont deal that combined two firms with plans to eventually split into three different companies.

People close to Mr. Flannery say he is being methodical and measured in his approach to making changes. There is a sense of urgency in the process, but GE also has access to cash and most of its major businesses are performing well, these people said.

GE has a history of divesting businesses in phases -- it sold its media business, NBCUniversal, to Comcast in several steps. Its consumer-finance unit, Synchrony Financial, went public in 2014 and GE sold its last shares in late 2015.

GE combined its Oil & Gas division with Baker Hughes in July 2017 to form a new public company with a former GE executive as CEO. GE said in November it would look to exit Baker Hughes but changed course in February, saying it wouldn't try to sell its majority stake before 2019.

GE has examined different options for the transportation division since last fall but hasn't been able to find a buyer, according to one person familiar with the matter. Weak demand has hit locomotive sales, but a public offering could allow GE investors to benefit if the market turns around.

The Wall Street Journal previously reported GE's effort to exit the business could be complicated because an outright sale could trigger a big tax hit. GE has owned the business for more than a century.

The transportation unit, which had sales of $4.2 billion last year, is one of the company's smaller divisions. It has an enterprise value of about $7 billion, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. In the freight rail market, it competes primarily with Electro-Motive Diesel, a unit of Caterpillar.

GE is also reviewing what to do with what remains of its financial-services business, GE Capital. The company in 2015 sold most of the unit, which was once one of the biggest U.S. lenders. But some pieces remain and have caused problems. Shortfalls in a long-term care insurance business recently forced GE Capital to set aside $15 billion in reserves over seven years.

GE is further paring the finance business and is even considering selling the entire GE Capital portfolio, according to the people familiar with the matter. Although GE Capital has about $157 billion in assets, some analysts say it has zero equity value. They say the liabilities and uncertainties might require GE to write a check to complete such a deal. The unit had about $31 billion in cash and $95 billion in debt as of Dec. 31.

Write to Thomas Gryta at thomas.gryta@wsj.com, Dana Mattioli at dana.mattioli@wsj.com and David Benoit at david.benoit@wsj.comarticle

The U.K. Takeover Panel said Thursday that Walt Disney will be obliged to make a mandatory offer for Sky if its proposed acquisition of assets from 21st Century Fox proceeds.

Continue Reading Below

The regulatory body said that Disney would have to bid within 28 days of completion of its acquisition of Fox assets and that it its offer would have be of 10.75 pounds a share ($15.25), unless Fox has acquired 100% of Sky or Comcast or any other party has bought more than 50% of Sky by that time.

Fox has also offered to buy the 61% stake in Sky it doesn't already own for a total of GBP11.7 billion, or GBP10.75 a share. Comcast said on Feb. 27 that it was considering making an offer of GBP12.50 a share for the whole of Sky.

The Takeover Panel said that it considers that securing control of Sky might reasonably be considered to be a significant purpose of Disney's acquiring control of Fox assets.

Following the statement from the Takeover Panel, Sky advised its shareholders to take no action.

Fox's offer is under regulatory scrutiny of British regulators. The country's antitrust regulator--The Competition and Markets Authority--in January provisionally ruled the Fox offer against the public interest on media plurality grounds. However, Fox has proposed remedies to allay the regulators' concerns.

Advertisement

21st Century Fox and News Corp., parent company of Dow Jones, share common ownership.

21st Century Fox is also the parent company of FOXBusiness.com.

Write to Adria Calatayud at adria.calatayudvaello@dowjones.comarticle

Walmart is likely to reach a deal to buy a majority stake in Indian e-commerce player Flipkart by the end of June in what could be the U.S. retail giant's biggest acquisition of an online business, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.

Continue Reading Below

Reuters reported last week that Walmart completed its due diligence on Flipkart and had made a proposal to buy 51 percent or more of the Indian company for between $10 billion to $12 billion.

A deal with Flipkart would step up Walmart's battle with Amazon.com for a bigger share of India's fledgling e-commerce market, which Morgan Stanley estimates will be worth $200 billion in a decade. Local media have reported that Amazon is exploring a possible counter offer for Flipkart.

Both sources declined to be named as the talks are private.

Walmart will buy both new and existing Flipkart shares, with the new shares expected to value the Bengaluru-based firm at at least $18 billion, the sources said. The price for existing shares would value the firm at about $12 billion, one of the people said.

Japan's SoftBank Group, which owns roughly one-fifth of Flipkart via its Vision Fund, is unlikely to sell any of its shares due to the low price being offered for the existing shares, this source said.

Advertisement

Reuters has previously reported that early investors such as Tiger Global, Accel and Naspers will likely sell their entire stakes in Flipkart to Walmart if a deal is reached.

A deal is not yet finalised, and talks between Walmart, Flipkart and its investors are ongoing, one of the people said.

Flipkart also counts eBay, Tencent Holdings and Microsoft among its investors.

Flipkart did not respond to a request for comment, a representative for Walmart in India declined comment while SoftBank said it doesn't comment on speculation.

BIG INDIAN BATTLE

For Walmart, the world's largest retailer known for its superstores, a deal with Flipkart would open up the vast Indian market.

Walmart has for years tried to enter India but has remained confined to a 'cash-and-carry' wholesale business amid tough restrictions on foreign investment. It currently operates 21 such stores in India.

By comparison, Amazon closely trails Flipkart, which along with its fashion units controls nearly 40 percent of India's online retail market, according to estimates by researcher Forrester.

Flipkart's investors are concerned that any deal with Amazon would run into regulatory hurdles as a combination would have more than 70 percent of India's online retail market, one of the sources said.

Walmart's push into e-commerce comes as Amazon has embraced offline retail, with an affiliate of the Seattle-based company picking up a $27.6 million stake in Indian retailer Shopper's Stop.

In the United States, Amazon also bought high-end grocer Whole Foods Market for $13.7 billion last year.

Walmart's investment would give Flipkart not just additional funds to fight Amazon, but also arm it with a formidable ally with extensive experience in retailing, logistics and supply chain management.

Former Amazon employees Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal founded Flipkart in 2007 in India's tech hub of Bengaluru.

Like Amazon's founder Jeff Bezos, they began by selling books, but have diversified rapidly, including by selling smartphones, such as those made by China's Xiaomi, through exclusive flash sales, and now compete with Amazon in almost all product categories.

(Writing by Miyoung Kim; Editing by Martin Howell)One million aggressive bees have swarmed a Texas neighborhood and residents are unsure of what to do.

The bees have set up shop in an east El Paso home for about three years, but homeowners said the insects have lately become more aggressive. The couple told KFOX14 that they are worried about people who walk by the home and the children who go to school nearby.

Bee specialist Pyong Livingston went to the home to remove the hive but the bees became agitated during extraction. Rudy Reyes, a KFOX14 photographer, reported that he was stung eight times while shooting video of the bees.

NURSE FIRED, ARRESTED AFTER PATIENT DIES AT TEXAS HOSPITAL

"I went on top of the roof. I went there with my camera and he was with his helper," Reyes said. "As soon as they got there and opened the roof, the shingles from the roof, it was, like, believe me, it was like a horror movie -- seeing this swarm of bees just coming out in a black cloud. Within seconds, I started getting stung by bees. I got two in the eye, in the head, and I just went into my unit (vehicle). Even though I went into my unit, I still got bees inside my unit."

Livingston said there were about a million bees in the hive and were mixed, African and European bees. He said the bees were 20 to 30 times more aggressive than normal honeybees.

“We were swarmed. We found that, as soon as we opened up a little area, we thought there were maybe 20,000 bees,” Livingston said. “It turns out to be over 100,000 bees. So they swarmed us and they started biting me all over, even with the suits."

TEXAS OKS MEXICAN-AMERICAN STUDIES CURRICULUM UNDER NEW NAME

The city of El Paso said the bees were “not the city’s responsibility” and are the homeowner’s duty to remove or exterminate them.

Livingston was able to remove some of the beehive but not all of it. In order to remove all the beehive, the walls would need to be opened and then closed after the hive is removed.

Bees become more active in the summer when it’s warmer. There have been cases of people being killed by bees. In 2014, an Arizona man was killed after a group of very aggressive bees became angry by the sound of a lawnmower and attacked him, The Telegraph reported. He died of a heart attack following the swarm of bees attacking him.Crews working in a historic department store building in downtown Minneapolis made an unexpected discovery recently -- the mummified remains of a monkey.

Demo worker Adam Peterson submitted a photo to the “Old Minneapolis” Facebook page, a site dedicated to curating historic images of the Minnesota city. The page then posted the photo Sunday.

The monkey was found last week in an air duct on the seventh floor of the 116-year-old Dayton's building.

The Facebook post said the "long-deceased" monkey "revealed itself in a ceiling during the renovation."

Cailin Rogers is a spokeswoman for the Dayton's Project, in which the old store is being converted into an office, retail and restaurant complex. She said developers don't know where the monkey came from or how it ended up in the air duct.

“We continue to find pieces of history in the Dayton’s Project as we redevelop the building,” Rogers said in an email to the Minneapolis/St. Paul Business Journal. “Unfortunately this was one of the recent discoveries. We don’t know the story or origin behind this, but we have been working with local museums to learn more and find homes for artifacts like this.”

Steven Laboe, who commented on the Facebook post of the photo, said he used to work in the building in the early 2000s and was told by a longtime building worker that a monkey had escaped from the eighth floor pet store in the 1960s, the Business Journal reported.

Staff reportedly determined that the monkey escaped into the air conditioning ductwork -- they later discovered an odor.

The monkey was apparently caught in an exhaust fan, which may explain a cut seen in the animal’s abdomen.

"If you look at the photo,” Alan Freed, one of the site's co-administrators, reportedly said, “there is a definite injury to the body. There is a cut to the body that isn't natural."

Another commenter posted a Dayton’s ad from 1963 of an exotic pet sale, which included two kinds of monkeys, Fox 9 Minneapolis reported.

The “Pet-O-Rama” decades ago was touted in a newspaper ad as being “a menagerie of delightful pets from all over the world!” the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported.

"They are finding so many interesting things as they get into the bones of that building, but who would ever have thought you would come across a dead monkey," Freed said, according to Fox 9.

The Dayton's project is scheduled to open to the public next summer, the report said. The office and retail complex will have a food hall in the basement.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Eight police officers in Argentina, including a former town police commissioner, have been dismissed from their posts after four of them claimed that more than half a ton of missing marijuana was carried off by mice, The Guardian reported Wednesday.

The paper reported that police in the town of Pilar, about 35 miles northwest of Buenos Aires, impounded 6,000 kilograms (13,228 pounds) of marijuana. But when police inspected the evidence warehouse sometime later, they found that 540 kilograms (1,190 pounds) were missing.

During their investigation, officers found that former police commissioner Javier Specia had not signed the inventory for the pot before he left his post in April 2017.

Specia and three of his subordinates were called before a judge, and all of them told the same story: the missing marijuana had been "eaten by mice."

That explanation didn't fly with forensics experts, who testified that mice wouldn't have mistaken marijuana for food -- and if they had done so, "a lot of corpses would have been found in the warehouse," a spokesperson for Judge Adrián González Charvay told The Guardian.

Specia and three of his officers must testify before the judge next month to help determine whether the weed vanished, in the spokesperson's words, "by connivance of negligence."

Click for more from The Guardian.U.S. Customs officials discovered a passenger at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York attempting to smuggle six pounds of cocaine hidden inside a liquor bottle.

AIRLINE EMPLOYEE CAUGHT AT JFK AIRPORT ALLEGEDLY SMUGGLING COCAINE

Officials reported Jamaican citizen Stefisha Miller had landed at JFK from Kingston, Jamaica’s capital, on Sunday when U.S. Customs and Border Protection Officers found two bottles of Bailey’s Irish Cream in her duty-free box -- and one of the bottles contained a bag of white powder.

The powder tested positive for cocaine, officers confirmed.

The cocaine seized weighed six pounds and had an estimated street value of $110,000, authorities reported.

“The smuggling of illicit drugs poses a significant threat to our nation, and CBP does its part in keeping these drugs off our streets," Francis J. Russo, Acting Director of CBP’s New York Field Operations, said. "As America’s unified border security agency, our employees are determined to protect the public from these substances.”

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Miller may face federal narcotics smuggling charges.

Last month another Jamaican citizen was caught at JFK with nearly nine pounds of cocaine taped to his legs.