President Trump on Saturday touted the “perfectly executed strike” against the Assad regime in Syria, thanking France and Britain for joining the US-led assault before declaring “Mission Accomplished!”

The three countries launched military strikes overnight Friday in Syria to punish President Bashar Assad for an apparent chemical attack against civilians and to deter him from doing it again.

“A perfectly executed strike last night. Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!,” Trump tweeted.

Pentagon officials said the attacks targeted the heart of Assad's programs to develop and produce chemical weapons.

Syrian television reported that Syria's air defenses, which are substantial, responded to the attack. Syrians poured into the streets for defiant demonstrations of their national pride.

Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said there were no reports of U.S. losses in what he described as a heavy but carefully limited assault.

Trump said earlier this weekend that the U.S. is prepared to sustain economic, diplomatic and military pressure on Assad until he ends what the president called a criminal pattern of killing his own people with internationally banned chemical weapons.

“So proud of our great Military which will soon be, after the spending of billions of fully approved dollars, the finest that our Country has ever had,” Trump also tweeted Saturday. “There won’t be anything, or anyone, even close!

The allied attack set off a fierce international debate about whether it was justified.

On Saturday, Putin reaffirmed Russia's view that a purported chemical attack in the Syrian town of Douma that prompted the strike was a fake. Putin added that Russian military experts who inspected Douma found no trace of the attack. He criticized the U.S. and its allies for launching the strike without waiting for inspectors from the international chemical weapons watchdog to visit the area.

The Syria attack drew support from the European Union, Germany, Israel and other allies while British Prime Minister Theresa May said reports indicate the Syrian government used a barrel bomb to deliver the chemicals used in an attack on Douma. She said the use of force was "right and legal" in this case.

Mattis said the assault was a "one-time shot," so long as Assad does not repeat his use of chemical weapons. The strikes were carried out by manned aircraft and from ships that launched cruise missiles from the Mediterranean Sea.

Mattis disclosed that the U.S. had not yet confirmed that the most recent suspected Syrian chemical weapons attack, on April 7 in the Damascus suburb of Douma, included the use of sarin gas. He said at least one chemical was used — chlorine, which also has legitimate industrial uses and had not previously triggered a U.S. military response.

Trump chastised Syria's two main allies, Russia and Iran, for their roles in supporting "murderous dictators," and noted that Russian President Vladimir Putin had guaranteed a 2013 international agreement for Assad to get rid of all of his chemical weapons. He called on Moscow to change course and join the West in seeking a more responsible regime in Damascus.

The U.S. missile strike a year ago, which targeted the airfield from where Syrian aircraft had launched their gas attack, was meant to deter Assad from further use of chemical weapons. Since that did not work, a more intense attack would aim to degrade his ability to carry out further such attacks, and would try to do this by hitting Syrian aircraft, military depots and chemical facilities, among other things.

The strikes that hit early Saturday in Syria came hours before inspectors from the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons were set to arrive to inspect the site of the apparent attack.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The Pentagon said Saturday that the U.S.-led allied missile strikes in Syria successfully hit all three targets and have “significantly crippled” Syrian President Bashar Assad’s ability to make more chemical weapons.

“I think we dealt them a severe blow,” Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie, director of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at the Pentagon after the overnight bombing. “We’ve attacked the heart of the Syrians’ chemical weapons program.”

McKenzie identified the targets as Barzah Research and Development, the Him Shinshar Chemical Weapons Storage Site and the Him Shinshar Bunker Facility. He also said a total 105 missiles were launched by air and sea, all hitting their targets within minutes.

The strikes, in Douma, near Damascus, were launched in response to evidence that the Assad regime killed civilians in an April 7 chemical attack, the latest in country’s years-long civil war.

President Trump on Saturday hailed the strikes and thanked U.S. allies for joining in the campaign.

"A perfectly executed strike last night,” he tweeted. “Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!"

ISI Image Sat International shared satellite images with Fox News, showing the Barzah Research and Development Center before and after the airstrikes. The "before" photo on the left is from August 2013, while the "after" photo on the right was taken Saturday. The images reveal crushing damage to structures at the target site.

McKenzie, a Marine Corps general, said he has no reports of civilian casualties following the U.S.-led strikes and that the attacks overnight Friday were launched from U.S., France and United Kingdom aircraft and ships, including those in the Persian Gulf, Red Sea and eastern Mediterranean Sea.

And he suggested that Syria still likely has some capability to make chemical weapons, despite the success of the attack.

“I would say there's still a residual element,” he said. “I'm not going to say they'll be unable to conduct a chemical attack in the future. I suspect, however, they'll think long and hard about it based on the activities of last night.”

Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said: “It’s intolerable for a civilized nation to use chemical weapons. … This is a regime that murders its people daily.”

White also said the United States is “very confident” that the Assad regime was behind the chemical weapons attack on civilians.

Pentagon officials said the allied forces’ attack was met with no resistance.

"I think the mission was a few things," Heather Nauert, acting under secretary of state for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, on Saturday told Fox News' "America's News HQ." "One, to show the world that the use of chemical weapons and the killing of innocent civilians will not be tolerated.

"The United States has taken all of diplomatic efforts, for many months now, for many years as a matter of fact. President Trump has lead the way on that. We have tried at the United Nations. We have tried at the European Union. We have had many conversations with our allies and partners around the world to bring this horrendous plight to the attention of the world."

The guided-missile cruisier USS Monterey fired 30 Tomahawk cruise missiles from the Red Sea. Nearby, the guided-missile destroyer Laboon fired another seven.

In the Persian Gulf, another destroyer, USS Higgins, fired launched 23.

In the Mediterranean, U.S. Navy submarine the John Warner launched six missiles.

Last year the United States alone launched a missile attack on the regime over its use of chemical weapons. This time the allied effort included a French frigate launching missiles and French and British fighter jets.

A pair of US Air Force B-1 bombers flying from Qatar under fighter escort launched 19 stand-off missiles.

The Russians and Syrians claimed they shot down dozens of these missiles, but the Pentagon says the Russian guns remained silent during the attack.

Syria fired roughly 40 missiles wildly into the air, after the U.S. and allied missiles had already landed, McKenzie said.

“The Syrian response was remarkably ineffective in all domains,” the general also said. “That's probably the best answer I can give you. So they had no material impact on the strike.”

The Russian disinformation campaign continues. White said there has been a 2,000 increase in Russian trolls on the internet, telling a different story than what reporters just heard at the Pentagon.

Fox News Pentagon correspondent Lucas Tomlinson and Yonat Friling contributed to this report.The Republican National Committee has committed $250 million to a midterm election strategy that has one goal above all else: Preserve the party's House majority for the rest of President Donald Trump's first term.

Facing the prospect of a blue wave this fall, the White House's political arm is devoting unprecedented resources to building an army of paid staff and trained volunteers across more than two dozen states. The RNC is taking the fight to Senate Democrats in Republican-leaning states, but much of the national GOP's resources are focused on protecting Republican-held House seats in states including Florida, California and New York.

"Our No. 1 priority is keeping the House. We have to win the House," RNC political director Juston Johnson said. "That is the approach we took to put the budget together."

RNC officials shared details of their midterm spending plan with The Associated Press just as several hundred volunteers and staff held a day of action on Saturday in competitive regions across the country. The weekend show of force, which comes as Democrats have shown a significant enthusiasm advantage in the age of President Donald Trump, was designed to train 1,600 new volunteers in more than 200 events nationwide.

There were more than three dozen events in Florida alone, a state that features competitive races for the Senate, the governorship and a half dozen House races.

Seven months before Election Day, there are already 300 state-based staff on the RNC's payroll. The committee expects to have 900 total paid staff around the country — excluding its Washington headquarters — before November's election, Johnson said. The number of trained volunteers, he said, has already surpassed 10,000.

The strategy is expensive. And it carries risk.

The RNC's focus on a sophisticated field operation designed to identify and turn out key voters, an approach favored by former chairman Reince Priebus and expanded by Trump's hand-picked chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel, leaves the RNC with no additional resources to run advertising on television or the internet. It also puts tremendous pressure on the president and senior party leaders to raise money to fund the massive operation.

And few believe that even the best field operation could wholly neutralize the surge of Democratic enthusiasm on display in recent special elections, which has some Republican strategists fearing that the House majority may be lost already.

Democrats need to pick up at least 24 seats to take control of the House for the last two years of Trump's first term. They need just two seats to claim the Senate majority, though the map makes a Democratic Senate takeover much less likely.

An optimistic McDaniel said strong Republican fundraising has allowed the aggressive strategy. During the first year of Trump's presidency, the GOP set a fundraising record by raising more than $132 million.

"Our sweeping infrastructure, combined with on-the-ground enthusiasm for President Trump and Republican policies, puts us in prime position to defend our majorities in 2018," McDaniel said.

The $250 million price tag for what she described as a "permanent data-driven field program" is the committee's largest ground-game investment in any election season. The resources are focused in some unfamiliar territory, including several House districts in Southern California, which Johnson described as "a huge focus."

At a minimum, each targeted state features an RNC state director, a data director and at least a few staff devoted to each competitive House district. They are aggressively recruiting and training local volunteers to expand the GOP's presence in key communities.

The teams are larger in some states than in others.

In Florida, there are already 60 permanent field staff on the ground, Johnson said, including some dedicated to building relationships with the influx of Puerto Ricans who recently migrated from the hurricane-ravaged island. Johnson expects close to 150 paid staff on the ground in the state by Election Day.

And there are roughly two dozen paid staff already on the ground in Ohio and Nevada, he said. Both states feature competitive races for the House and Senate.

Nevada state director Dan Coats has been on the ground in the state for a year. He said the Nevada team already features directors for voter registration, volunteer training and strategic initiatives, which include Hispanic outreach.

"We're building a volunteer army that will be a turnkey operation for every Republican campaign up and down the ballot," Coats said. "A strong field game like the one we have here can and will make a difference."By firing 105 missiles at Syrian chemical weapons targets before dawn Saturday, the U.S., Britain and France sent a clear message to dictator Bashar Assad: they will not tolerate his regime’s use of toxic gas and other weapons of mass destruction against his own citizens.

But it seems the tripartite alliance is prepared allow Assad to keep killing Syrians on massive scale using conventional weapons. The death toll in Syria after seven years of war is more than 500,000 – and rising. The fact that these deaths did not involve chemical weapons makes them no less tragic for their victims and surviving loved ones.

It’s hard to know exactly how many of the Syrian deaths have been caused by chemical weapons. But we know they represent a relatively small percentage. The Assad regime has killed far more Syrians through crude barrel bombs, mass executions, starvation and deprivation, and in other ways.

On top of this, there have also been conventional military strikes conducted with and without the help of Assad’s allies – Iran and Russia. Both those nations have devoted significant resources to the war.

So despite the new attack announced by President Trump, the Syrian-Iranian-Russian conventional war machine that is responsible for the overwhelming majority of the murders of innocent Syrians remains intact. And it is not being threatened by America and our allies.

Of course, President Trump has conveyed his utter contempt for Assad and the forces backing him. He has called Assad an “animal,” and he has called out Iran and Russia as being “responsible” for backing him.

But President Trump remains ambivalent about crafting a foreign policy that would prevent those three nations from continuing their slaughter. Just last week, the president vowed to pull America’s estimated 2,000 troops out of Syria “very soon.” This announcement was certainly welcomed by Assad and his allies.

President Trump’s advisers have apparently convinced him to leave U.S. forces in Syria for a little while longer to battle the Islamic State. But administration officials are assiduously avoiding the question of the post-Islamic State reality – namely that Iran, Russia and Assad are poised to grow stronger and keep on killing Syrians until Assad has crushed opposition to his rule.

To be fair, the crisis in Syria is not of President Trump’s making. He inherited that disaster from President Obama. But keeping a narrow focus on the Islamic State and chemical weapons while ignoring the rest of the bloodshed is actually perpetuating President Obama’s horrendous policies.

The U.S. policy of focusing only on stopping Assad’s chemical weapons attacks is a recipe for more misery, death and destruction. It’s also an abdication of American leadership.

With the world now focused on the atrocities in Syria, the time is right for President Trump to retool America’s policy there. Such a course correction need not lead America into another Middle East quagmire.

What is needed now is a strategy that enables the United States and its allies to make it increasingly more difficult for Syria, Iran and Russia to operate on the battlefield.

There are those who warn of a direct clash between the United States and Russia or Iran. And those concerns are valid. That’s why it’s time we examine the vulnerabilities of Hezbollah, the terrorist military force from Lebanon that is Iran’s lethal proxy in Syria.

Hezbollah has deployed thousands of fighters to Syria to attack the Syrian opposition to Assad. Similarly, we need to look at ways to undermine the scores of Shiite militias that Iran has assembled to fight in Syria in support of the Assad dictatorship.

We also need to revisit once again the idea of creating safe havens for Syrians and no-fly zones to protect them. And we need to think creatively about other ways to minimize the abilities of Russia, Iran and Assad to slaughter more Syrians – all without committing to occupy or rebuild the country.

The United States, France and Britain acted morally and responsibly by striking Bashar Assad’s chemical weapons program in Syria. But without a broader strategy, our air strikes will send the wrong message: that we are not concerned about the vast majorities of mass atrocities that have become commonplace in Syria for the last seven years.Vice President Mike Pence, attending an international summit on Saturday, said he backs President Trump’s assertion earlier in the day that the U.S.-led airstrikes this weekend in Syria resulted in “mission accomplished,” And he warned Syrian ally Russia that it is “on the wrong side of history.”

Pence spoke while in Peru about 18 hours after the U.S., France and the United Kingdom launched 105 missiles at three facilities connected to the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his purported April 7 chemical attack on civilians, in the country’s years-long civil war.

The vice president attended the Summit of the Americas after Trump earlier this week canceled plans to attend the event so he could craft a response to the chemical attack, for which U.S. officials say there's proof of Assad’s involvement.

“Last night, the objective of the mission of that (our) commander in chief gave our military forces was completely accomplished, with swift professionalism,” Pence said in response to reporters’ questions about whether Trump hastily overstated the mission’s outcome.

Earlier in the day, Pentagon officials suggested they had proof that the Assad regime was behind the attack, but said they couldn’t elaborate on the information because it was classified.

Pence said the United States acted after the intelligence community and allies concluded with a high degree of confidence that "at a minimum,” chlorine was used in the attack, and possibly serin.

“Our message to Russian is, ‘You're on the wrong side of history,’ ” Pence also said. “It’s time for Russia to get the message President Trump delivered last night. You're known by the company you keep.”

He also said the United State will mount a “sustained effort” against the regime if the attacks continue, echoing what U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley said in an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council on Saturday.

Pence also said leaders at the summit, which is focused on the collapse of democracy in Venezuela, saoid they support the missile strikes in Syria.

On an unrelated subject, the vice president acknowledged no change in the stalemate between Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto and Trump over plans to build a U.S.-Mexico wall.

“The United States has a strong president, and Mexico has a strong president,” Pence said. “When you have two people with strong personalities, they have strong differences.”

Pence said Trump’s call for Mexico to pay for the U.S.-built wall “did not come up” in meetings.

However, he suggested that the United States, Mexico and Canada are close to renegotiating a new NAFTA deal.

“I'll leave this summit very hopeful that we are very close to a renegotiated NAFTA that will be a better deal for the American people,” the vice president said, referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement involving the U.S., Mexico and Canada. “And it will have a kind of fairness that will permit us to go forward in a productive, mutually beneficial relationship.”Justice deferred may be justice denied. But for I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby – former Vice President Dick Cheney’s chief of staff, who was convicted of perjury and obstruction of justice in 2007 – President Trump’s pardon on Friday, however belated, was welcome. For me, too.

Thirteen years ago, as a New York Times reporter, I went to jail to protect the identity of my news sources, and one source in particular – “Scooter” Libby.

In 2007 I had testified against Libby, saying that I thought he and I had discussed Valerie Plame, a CIA agent whose identity he was said to have leaked to the media to punish her husband for challenging intelligence about weapons of mass destruction that President George W. Bush had cited to justify the 2003 war in Iraq.

Critics of the war were outraged and demanded an independent investigation of the leak by a special prosecutor. While Libby was never charged with leaking Plame's name, he was convicted of lying to the FBI and a grand jury and of obstructing justice in the leak investigation.

At a news conference after Libby's conviction, Patrick Fitzgerald – the special prosecutor appointed by then-Deputy Attorney General James Comey (who later became FBI director) – called my testimony crucial to the verdict.

So why would I be pleased with Libby's pardon? Because after leaving jail and investigating the case, I unearthed information that convinced me not only that my testimony was in error, but that Libby was the victim of an overzealous prosecutor whose investigation should have ended before it began.

I described my findings in a 2015 memoir about high-stakes journalism, “The Story, A Reporter’s Journey.”

The first thing I learned was that John Rizzo, the CIA’s former general counsel and an agency lawyer for over 30 years, disputed prosecutor Fitzgerald’s assertion that Valerie Plame had been a super-secret covert agent who was not well known outside of the intelligence community and that the leak of her name had caused grave, if unspecified, harm to America’s national security.

Rizzo told me in an interview and subsequently wrote in his own book that “dozens, if not hundreds of people in Washington” knew that Plame worked for the CIA. Even more significantly, he said, a CIA damage assessment of the leak had produced “no evidence” that her outing had harmed any CIA operation, any agent in the field, or “anyone else, including Plame herself.”

I also learned that the CIA assessment had been finished in late 2003 or early 2004, long before Libby was indicted or I went to jail. Although prosecutor Fitzgerald knew this, Rizzo's crucial CIA finding became public only after his book was published. But if the leak had caused no national security harm, why had Fitzgerald continued the inquiry?

Fitzgerald refused to discuss the case with me after the trial. Nor would he say why he pursued Libby after learning early in the inquiry that the source of the leak was not Libby, but Richard Armitage, an aide to Secretary of State Colin Powell, who had argued against the war. But Armitage was never punished for releasing classified information.

Then I learned that Fitzgerald had withheld exculpatory evidence not only from me but also from Libby's lawyer that might surely have jogged my memory and prevented me from unwittingly giving false testimony against him. Finally, the prosecutor opposed letting the jury hear information about how often memories of such conversations fail.

I hoped that President Bush might pardon Libby. But while he commuted Libby’s sentence of 30 months in jail, he refused to issue a full pardon despite repeated pleas from Vice President Cheney, who argued that Libby was a de facto scapegoat for public fury over and opposition to the war.

In retrospect, it is clear that Libby’s prosecution marked the beginning of the criminalization of policy differences – a dangerous trend that continues to this day. In light of all this, I'm pleased that Libby has finally been pardoned.

The ink on the pardon was barely dry, however, when critics began saying that President Trump pardoned Libby to signal those facing charges in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe that he will pardon them as well if they are convicted. The pardon was intended to persuade those facing the special prosecutor’s scrutiny not to cooperate or to lie, they said.

Since I never discussed a pardon for Libby with any White House official, I have no idea what motivated President Trump’s decision. In its announcement, the White House said that my book’s recantation of my testimony had helped persuade the president that Libby had been treated unfairly.

But Fitzgerald's and Robert Mueller's probes are not the same. The targeting of Libby was baseless, since the prosecutor knew early on that no crime had been committed and that Libby was not the source of the initial leak of Plame's name.

Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, by contrast, was real, whether or not it succeeded, and efforts to determine whether President Trump or senior members of his campaign conspired with the Russians to enable such meddling clearly warrant an independent probe.

The Libby investigation was not prompted by a national security threat, whereas Russian meddling in a presidential election was an attempted assault on a pillar of American democracy. It must not be ignored.

And efforts to understand the depth and scope of Russian disinformation campaign cannot be dismissed as a "witch hunt." Any tweeted signal to obstruct it imperils not only the investigation, but democracy itself.Ever since Syrian dictator Bashar Assad’s latest chemical weapons atrocity last weekend, many of President Trump’s strongest supporters have gone out of their way to caution against a military response from the United States.

These supporters rightly pointed out that military intervention in the Middle East has been a disaster for the U.S., costing thousands of lives and trillions of dollars – and for what? A situation on the ground that never seems to improve, and a series of conflicts that no amount of American blood or treasure looks likely to bring to an end.

What difference can we possibly make, even with the best of intentions, to religious and ethnic strife with origins that are centuries old? Often – as with the rise of ISIS – our actions seem to make things even worse.

You know the arguments: America shouldn’t get involved in foreign wars. We’ve had enough of getting bogged down in quagmires overseas. No more nation-building abroad. Let’s focus on building our nation here at home.

Let’s be clear: those arguments are absolutely right. Only a deeply ideological mindset, divorced from reality and experience, could see it any other way.

Standing firmly behind such a skeptical attitude to U.S. military interventionism was a big part of Donald Trump’s political success in 2016. It marked him out from the establishment Republicans he faced in the presidential primaries, and from the establishment Democrat he faced in November.

Hillary Clinton’s hawkish reputation – she was frequently described by the left in her own party as a “warmonger” – undoubtedly cost her support.

But as ever in politics, a good argument can fall apart if you push it to extremes. A bias against a swaggering kind of global interventionism does not mean you should never take any action, on any issue, anywhere.

Populists who support President Trump should remember one of the hallmarks of populism: it’s pragmatic. It’s not ideological.

That’s why populists who set their face against any military response to Assad’s evil are making a mistake. They exhibit exactly the same kind of ideological dogmatism that populism rejects, and we’ve seen this abundantly on display.

Even as the U.S., British and French strikes were underway before dawn Saturday morning (Syria time), self-styled “nationalists” were searching for reasons to object. They came across as ideologues.

There is, in fact, a strong, positive populist case for the missile strikes against Syria, and it’s a simple and practical one: if you appease one dictator, you encourage all dictators.

The missile strikes against Syria are not just about Syria.

When President Obama appeased the Syrian government with his failure to back up his “red line” rhetoric in 2012 – a warning to Assad not to use chemical weapons – that didn’t just encourage Assad to use chemical weapons again.

President’s Obama’s empty threat gave the green light to Russian President Vladimir Putin to invade Ukraine, knowing that the U.S. would never act. It emboldened North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un to push harder for nuclear weapons and long-range missiles, believing America was weak.

And most significantly for the populist movement, President Obama’s failure to act against Syria strengthened the resolve of Chinese dictator Xi Jinping.

Xi saw that America would not confront a bully, so he stepped up his own bullying – seizing territory in the South China Sea, increasing oppression and Communist Party control at home, and developing his plans for military and economic world domination through his ‘One Belt One Road” and “Made in China 2025” programs.

If President Trump had failed to respond militarily to this latest Syrian chemical attack, dictators and bullies the world over would have gotten a simple message: do whatever you want, because America’s not going to stop you.

That wouldn't just mean the likelihood of more chemical attacks, which could put Americans in danger around the world. It would mean that our hand would be weakened when confronting China over trade as well. A strong America is not only good for security, it’s good economics – good for American workers.

Furthermore, contrary to the nationalist and isolationist dogma, you can show strength and stand up to bullies without getting entangled in costly, lengthy and counterproductive invasions of other countries.

You can show strength like President Reagan did, with airstrikes on Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi. You don’t need to follow the disastrous model of President George W. Bush that drew U.S. troops into Afghanistan and Iraq, where they remain today.

That kind of practical, balanced approach – show strength but don’t get bogged down overseas – seems to be exactly the strategy on display from President Trump and his team over Syria. Every positive populist should support it.House Speaker Paul Ryan says he’ll remain the top Republican in the GOP-controlled chamber until retiring in January, despite calls for a fast leadership transition and concerns from within his caucus about a dragged-out process hurting the party in the November midterms.

“I don’t think anybody's election is going to hinge on if Paul Ryan is speaker of the House,” he told Fox News, after announcing Wednesday that he’s not seeking re-election this year and as the behind-the-scenes jockeying among House Republicans for his position came more into public view.

Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, also dismissed the argument that him remaining speaker until year’s end would damage party efforts to keep its House majority as “just internal D.C. gossip.”

But some rank-and-file House members appear concerned.

“No disrespect to Paul, but quite frankly, you want somebody who’s got skin in the game after the elections,” Rep. Mark Amodei, R-Nevada, told The Washington Post.

Amodei was perhaps the most public in his concerns, while others questioned whether Ryan could, as a lame-duck speaker, lead the chamber toward passing any meaningful legislation -- though a slim legislative agenda ahead allows incumbents to focus more on re-election as primary season heats up.

Other House Republicans argue that Ryan’s announced retirement, after roughly two decades in Congress, would diminish his ability to raise funds, which brings millions of dollars for GOP candidates.

“I’ve broken every record that any (House) speaker has ever had on fundraising,” Ryan said on the day of his retirement announcement and one day after Politico reported he'd raised $11.1 million in the first quarter of 2018, bringing his total for this year’s election cycle to $54 million.

While Amodei sounded perhaps the most upfront about his wishes, Rep. Tom Graves, R-Ga., suggested to Politico that having “our strongest leadership in place” would yield more success in the midterms, as energized Democrats appear to have a very realistic chance of winning roughly two dozen GOP-held House seats to retake the chamber.

The party not controlling the White House historically wins about 24 seats in a midterm. And 38 House Republicans are not seeking 2018 re-election.

Amid weeks of speculation about Ryan’s departure, the contest for his post was being considered a two-man race between House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, the No. 2 man in GOP House leadership, and Majority Whip Steve Scalise, the No. 3 man.

However, Louisiana's Scalise has indicated he won’t challenge McCarthy if the California lawmaker seeks the speakership. And Ryan now appears to be backing McCarthy.

Conservatives appear to want the speakership vote to be held after the elections, to give new members, not outgoing ones, a vote. McCarthy’s 2015 bid to become speaker failed in part because he didn’t have the votes from the House Freedom Caucus, the chamber’s roughly 35-member conservative wing.

And at least some members and a leader of the Tea Party movement have publically and privately suggested they could add to the congressional ranks after November, giving them more power in leadership voting.U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said Saturday that the United States is “locked and loaded” if Syrian President Bashar Assad’s regime uses chemical gas again in the country.



Haley made the remarks at a fiery meeting of the U.N. Security Council, in which Russia and the U.S. traded barbs over the decision of the U.S., France and the United Kingdom to launch strikes in Syria on Friday in response to the alleged use of chemical weapons last week in Douma. A draft resolution from Russia condemning the strike failed in a vote, with only Bolivia and China voting alongside Russia.



While the Trump administration has said the strikes are now over, with Trump declaring: “Mission Accomplished!” on Saturday morning, Haley warned in her remarks that should the Assad regime use such weapons again, strikes could resume.



"I spoke to President Trump this morning and he said if the Syrian regime uses this poisonous gas again, the United States is locked and loaded," she said.



In what may be seen as a jab at former President Barack Obama, who famously drew a red line on chemical weapons use in Syria in 2012 but was accused of failing to follow through, Haley promised that Trump would not waver: “When our president draws a red line, our president enforces the red line."



Her remarks came after Russian ambassador Vasily Nebenzia tore into the U.S. and its allies for the strikes, accusing them of an “illegal military adventure” and “hooliganism in international relations."

"You are constantly tempted by neo-colonialism,” he said. “You have nothing but disdain for the U.N. Charter and the Security Council which you are unjustifiably trying to use for your illicit aims.”



He also expressed doubt the claims about chemical weapons use by the Assad regime, suggesting it was a fabrication by the West as a pretext for intervention in the country.



“You want to throw this country back into the Stone Age,” he said. “You want to finish off what your sanctions haven’t achieved yet.”



Haley in turn dismissed what she said was a Russian disinformation campaign in full force.



“The pictures of dead children are not fake news,” she said.



Russia was also strongly criticized by ambassadors for the U.K. and France, with both officials criticizing Russian protection of the Assad regime and emphasizing the body of evidence that they say pointed to the Assad regime’s fingerprints on the chemical weapons attacks. They also pushed back on Russian claims that the strike was a breach of the U.N. Charter.



“I will take no lessons in international law from Russia,” U.K. ambassador Karen Pierce said in her remarks.



Secretary General Antonio Guterres urged member states to “show restraint in these dangerous circumstances and to avoid any acts that could escalate matters and worsen the suffering of the Syrian people.” He also described the use of chemical weapons as “abhorrent” and called on the Security Council to agree on a dedicated mechanism to assure accountability for chemical weapons use in Syria.



“A lack of accountability emboldens those who would use such weapons by providing them with the reassurance of impunity,” he said.



The Pentagon said that 105 missiles all hit their respective targets, destroying three of Assad’s chemical weapons facilities. A Pentagon spokesperson also warned of a Russian disinformation campaign, telling reporters that there has been a 2,000 percent increase in Russian trolls online in the last 24 hours.

On Saturday, State Department Press Secretary Heather Nauert said on "America's News Headquarters" that it is time for Russia to take responsibility in the region.

"We've been saying to Russia, stop, if you want to be a responsible international member, a responsible party to the international community, then Russia needs to take responsibility and they need to cut this out," she said.

Vice President Mike Pence, speaking in Peru, said that the message to Russia was: "You're on the wrong side of history."

Fox News’ Ben Evansky, Lucas Tomlinson and Kristin Brown contributed to this report.Following the missile attack by U.S., French and British forces on Syrian chemical weapons targets that President Trump announced Friday, the anti-Trump media immediately fired back at the president, wondering if he ordered the strike to divert attention from news coverage of his troubles at home.

CNN anti-Trump Republican commentator Ana Navarro took the chance to bash President Trump once more, tweeting: “It is true Trump may have ordered strikes against Syria to distract attention from Comey book & Cohen investigation.” She referred to the new book by fired FBI Director James Comey filled with criticism of the president, and to a U.S. Justice Department investigation of the president’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen.

MSNBC’s far-left Rachel Maddow said on her show minutes after President Trump announced the Syria attack that foreign leaders may believe the U.S. president “issued the order to launch this strike tonight, even in part, because … he wanted to distract from a catastrophic domestic scandal that is blowing up at home at the same time.”

New York Times columnist Paul Krugman fired off a series of tweets saying the president is “dishonest, corrupt, quite possibly being blackmailed by a hostile foreign power” and raising the question: “Could such a man deliberately wag the dog?”

“Wag the Dog” is a 1997 films that tells the fictional story of a Hollywood producer and a spin doctor who stage a fake war to dominate new coverage and successfully divert media attention from a presidential sex scandal.

The New York Times used its editorial page to take President Trump to task for the attack on Syria. While the newspaper said the limited attack was “reassuring,” it criticized the president for acting without congressional approval. It urged Congress to pass legislation limiting presidential power to wage war rather than “ceding broad powers to an impulsive president with dubious judgment.”

Other pundits kept up the anti-Trump onslaught. The Atlantic Senior Editor David Frum also blasted Trump repeatedly, claiming: “The lives of Americans and the peace of the world are in hands you wouldn't trust with your beer money.” He went on to argue that “the political leadership of the US is broken. No new wars under this president.”

Esquire writer Charles P. Pierce mocked the president’s comments after the strike: “Child very proud of new toy. And his fully-approved dollars.”

CNN White House reporter Kaitlan Collins was one of several in the media to criticize Trump’s use of the term “mission accomplished.” She retweeted a comment by the president, adding this: “Oh man. ‘Mission accomplished.’ A phrase George W. Bush used in 2003, and later came to regret because it conveyed the wrong message, that the Iraq war was over.”

RT, the embarrassingly pro-Putin Russian propaganda outlet, ran this unsubtle headline: “US acting as ‘ISIS air force’ in Syria, spreads ‘conscious, transparent lie’ – analysts to RT.”

2. Going into the Sewer:

There’s an old saying: “Sex sells.” The media have clearly embraced that money-making idea, working overtime to draw viewers, readers and listeners by focusing much of their recent coverage on the Trump presidency on unproven and salacious allegations about the sexual behavior of the president many years ago.

The prevailing media wisdom is that stories about President Trump’s success in creating jobs, cutting taxes, getting rid of needless regulations and accomplishing so much else is B-O-R-I-N-G.

But allegations that president denies about his sex life? Hey – that’s entertainment that will draw an audience! As satirist Tom Lehrer sang in his 1960sc ode to pornography, titled “Smut”: “More, more I’m still not satisfied!”

Stormy Daniels wasn’t enough. It wasn’t enough for the media to go digging through the ancient claims of a former porn star to try to find dirt on a president they hate. They had to jump in the sewer. CBS and NBC actually cautioned viewers about content Friday, with NBC anchor Lester Holt giving parents “a warning if there are small kids in the room.”

Comey’s new book helped the media dive into the filth. Titled “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” the book hits the stands next week and major media have been doing everything but standing on street corners selling copies.

Their obsession focused on Comey’s comments about allegations – without a shred of evidence backing them up – claiming that President Donald Trump was involved with prostitutes in Moscow. President Trump has vehemently denied the sensationalist charge. This has become a national news story because journalists desperately want it to be true.

ABC anchor and former top aide to President Clinton George Stephanopoulos had a full interview with Comey. Part of that interview appeared on “Good Morning America” to help push Comey’s book.

Stephanopoulos asked: “Was President Trump obstructing justice? Should Donald Trump be impeached?” Then the show cut to a promo … like there’s a person in America who doesn’t know what Comey will claim.

It wasn’t just impeachment. Hillary Clinton biographer Carl Bernstein continued trying to tie President Trump to President Richard Nixon. He told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360”: “We’re in a constitutional crisis,” arguing that President Trump will shut down the meandering investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election. Despite repeated claims that this will happen, the media have been wrong every time on this.

CNN White House Correspondent Jim Acosta questioned the president’s willingness to send out tweets criticizing Comey, asking: “Isn't all of that a bit unbecoming the presidency, of this White House to go after him (Comey) in such a personal way like that? Calling him a slime ball and a liar and a leaker?”

The GOP responded to Comey claims by reminding the world how much Democrats discredited Comey earlier, when they hated him for reporting on the FBI investigation of the Hillary Clinton email scandal. Republicans created an embarrassing video that shows politician after politician tearing down the fired FBI director they now lionize. Don’t look for much of that on TV news. It destroys the narrative.

Because that’s what this is about. The Chicago Tribune ran a telling column headlined: “Donald Trump's presidency is collapsing.” That’s what the left and media want.

Ultimately, the anti-Trump journalists couldn’t care less about Daniels, prostitutes, etc. Their goal is to undermine the president with an onslaught of “news” intended to embarrass him and drive him from office any way they can.

3. Social Media Isn’t So Social: Social media had a down-and-up week following a bizarre tweet from Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and then Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s apology tour of Capitol Hill.

Dorsey kicked off the week, posting “The Great Lesson of California in America’s New Civil War.” The article described how California became a one-party state and said “there’s no way that a bipartisan path provides the way forward” for the United States. There’s only one way, going left. The article was widely mocked online. Dorsey’s take? “Great read.” Disheartening for anyone hoping for fair treatment on Twitter.

Zuckerberg spoke first to committees in the Senate and then a House committee, saying he was “sorry” 15 separate times. The discussion was notable for a few reasons. National Review called it: “Grandpa Tries to Interrogate Your Company’s IT Guy.” The magazine wasn’t wrong.

Members of Congress were sometimes poorly prepped, not just on the workings of social media, but the workings of the Internet. Democratic Sen. Brian Schatz of Hawaii didn’t even understand you can’t email within WhatsApp, “which is a text-messaging and voice-call app.”

Republicans hammered home points about mistreatment of the right online. Zuckerberg responded to a grilling from Texas Sen. Ted Cruz by admitting : “Facebook and the tech industry are located in Silicon Valley, which is an extremely left-leaning place.”

Zuckerberg denied Democratic claims that Facebook had aided the Obama campaign in 2012. Don’t hold your breath waiting for journalists to dig into that story to find out what really happened.

4. The Paul Ryan Tidal Wave: Remember the tidal wave in “Deep Impact,” the lesser of the 1998 meteor movies? That’s what the media envision will happen in November, predicting that Democrats will gain majority control in the House and Senate.

This week’s announced retirement of unpopular House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., further emphasized the media narrative. NBC correspondent Kasie Hunt underscored how “Ryan couldn't escape the building blue (Democratic) wave.”

MSNBC anchor Lawrence O’Donnell said: “The big blue wave is looking so big, so overwhelming” to explain why Ryan is retiring. O’Donnell added : “Paul Ryan will take his seat as simply the worst of this country's speakers of the House of Representatives” and placed him below a “pedophile” and those who were “slave-owning.”

The New York Times theoretically conservative columnist Bret Stephens told MSNBC that Ryan’s refusal to resign to protest Trump “is going to be a stain on his political reputation forever.”Several surprises – with wide implications – are buried in the report that Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz released Friday that found fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe lied to federal investigators.

The report provided new details about McCabe’s lies to cover up his self-serving leaking of information to a Wall Street Journal reporter about an FBI investigation of the Clinton Foundation – but also has implications for our constitutional democracy.

And the report shows that both McCabe and fired FBI Director James Comey deserved to be fired for presiding over a culture of unseemly leaks. The two plainly violated longstanding federal priorities, practices and policies. McCabe did so in the extreme, while Comey did so through a display of extraordinarily poor judgment, usurpation of power and abdication of leadership.

A thoughtful reading of the report shows that these FBI policies are sensible, sound and well-enforced.

One policy bars lying to federal officials – whether or not under oath – and quaintly describes such lies as “a lack of candor.”

The other policy restricts media contacts, saying “disclosures to the media must not address an ongoing investigation.”

McCabe failed to follow these policies, so he paid the price – just as any FBI employee should.

Through a laborious, systematic and thorough recitation of facts, the report by the inspector general makes a compelling case that Deputy Director McCabe had to go. One cannot wade through the report to the end and come to any other conclusion.

But what the report implies is as important as what it announces.

One revelation is that during the 2016 presidential election, upper reaches of the FBI – including the director, deputy director, agents and lawyers – were clearly confused and conflicted by repeated missteps by Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton.

Conducting an investigation of any presidential candidate, at any point in any election cycle, was unprecedented, unnerving and unsettling to many – particularly those who seemed to favor her.

At least two investigations directly implicated Hillary Clinton in wrongdoing.

One investigation was prompted by a referral from the intelligence community, dealing with Clinton’s mishandling of classified information. That one widened to encompass a flotilla of potential legal violations tied to Clinton’s rogue email server, destruction of evidence and other bizarre actions.

The second dug into malfeasance, or worse, surrounding the Clinton Foundation and Clinton’s actions while secretary of state. Reading between the lines, FBI leadership was obviously distraught by the Democratic candidate’s proclivity for putting herself in legal jeopardy.

For the record, the inspector general’s report makes crystal clear that both of these pits of legal jeopardy were “investigations,” not mere “matters,” as Democratic Attorney General Loretta Lynch told the FBI to call them.

On balance, the McCabe leak seems par for the course – part of an FBI leadership culture that regularly used the media to influence internal policies in Washington and elsewhere. In short, while the deputy FBI director behaved incorrigibly, he was not alone.

Rather ironically, recall that the FBI stopped working with former British spy Christopher Steele because he leaked information to the media. He had been commissioned by Clinton’s campaign through a cutout to create the infamous anti-Trump “dossier.”

Shockingly, the inspector general’s report found that McCabe employed news leaks to counter other “anonymous” FBI and Justice Department news leaks. There is no defense for that kind of manipulation of the public.

The impression left by Inspector General Horowitz’s report is sobering. It describes an agency culture, at the top, entirely comfortable with anonymous leaks to the media for bending internal policies and possibly affecting politics.

This seems to fly in the face of the two FBI policies citied above.

Add to this the major news leak by James Comey, who slipped what he thought was damning information to a Columbia University professor on a “Russia collusion” story.

Comey succeeded in using the leak to prompt the hiring of Robert Mueller as a special counsel to investigate President Trump, the man who fired Comey.

Hell hath no fury like an FBI director scorned.

What is the Justice Department inspector general really saying? The report is about more than McCabe. It says the FBI’s leadership culture is in deep need of review, a victim of its own arrogance, indifference and political capture.

Inspector General Horowitz is also saying, in this tidy, detailed, non-political, highly credible report, that Comey and McCabe were both distracted, disinterested, and patently poor leaders.

Intended or not, the ultimate implication in the inspector general’s report is this: President Trump was fully entitled to remove both Comey and McCabe. The FBI cleaned out McCabe. The president sent Comey packing. The inspector general’s report seems to justify both actions.

With full credit to Winston Churchill, another straight shooter, if this is not the end of the story, or not even the beginning of the end, perhaps it is the end of the beginning. Let us fervently hope so.The United States, Britain and France launched precision military strikes in Syria to punish the Assad regime for an apparent chemical weapons attack against civilians.

President Donald Trump called the assault a “combined operation” with two European allies; as Defense Secretary James Mattis said, they targeted three locations in what he described as a heavy but carefully limited assault.

Fox News confirmed that warships and U.S. Air Force B-1 bombers, which flew out of Qatar, were used in Friday’s campaign.

Mattis said no follow-up attacks are planned and that the Pentagon was careful to ensure the safety of Russian troops and Syrian civilians in the area.

Pentagon officials said the attacks targeted the heart of Assad's programs to develop and produce chemical weapons.

The strikes did not cause any casualties and the facilities targeted only had minor damages.

The U.S. officials said Friday’s airstrikes were twice the size of the U.S. assault last year, which targeted a single airbase.

"Clearly the Assad regime did not get the message last year," Mattis said. "This time our allies and we have struck harder."

Mattis said the U.S. intelligence has determined that the Syrian government used chlorine gas in last Saturday's poison attack.

The attacks stirred up angry responses from Syria’s allies and ignited a debate over whether the attacks were justified.

Russian President Vladimir Putin called the strikes an “act of aggression” that had the “destructive influence on the entire system of international relations and will exacerbate humanitarian catastrophe in Syria.”

“Russia condemns in the strongest possible terms the attack against Syria, where Russian military personnel are assisting the legitimate government in its counterterrorism efforts,” he said in a statement.

Syrian television reported that Syria's air defenses, which are substantial, responded to the attack. Syrians poured into the streets for defiant demonstrations of their national pride.

Trump said the U.S. is prepared to sustain economic, diplomatic and military pressure on Assad until he ends what the president called a criminal pattern of killing his own people with internationally banned chemical weapons.

Assad tweeted on his official account following the strike that, "Good souls will not be humiliated." He vowed his country would respond to the strikes.

The Syria attack drew support from the European Union, Germany, Israel and other allies

French President Emmanuel Macron said the operation was targeting the "clandestine chemical arsenal."

"We cannot tolerate the trivialization of chemical weapons, which is an immediate danger for the Syrian people and our collective security. This is the direction of the diplomatic initiatives put forward by France at the United Nations Security Council," he said.

British Prime Minister Theresa May said she "authorized British armed forces to conduct coordinated and targeted strikes to degrade the Syrian Regime’s chemical weapons capability and deter their use."

"The Syrian regime has a history of using chemical weapons against its own people in the most cruel and abhorrent way," May wrote in a statement.

"This is not about intervening in a civil war. It is not about regime change. It is about a limited and targeted strike that does not further escalate tensions in the region and that does everything possible to prevent civilian casualties. And while this action is specifically about deterring the Syrian regime, it will also send a clear signal to anyone else who believes they can use chemical weapons with impunity," she continued.

Trump's announcement immediately preceded reports of loud explosions lighting up the sky in Damascus, the Syrian capital.

Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the U.S. did not coordinate targets with or notify the Russian government of the strikes, beyond normal airspace "de-confliction" communications.

Dunford said missiles first struck a scientific research center in the Damascus area that he said was a center of Syrian research, development, production and testing of chemical and biological warfare technology. The second target was a chemical weapons storage facility west of Homs. He said this was believed to be the main site of Syrian sarin and precursor chemical production equipment.

The third target was a chemical weapons equipment storage facility and an important command post, also west of Homs, Dunford said.

Trump said the U.S. is prepared to "sustain" pressure on Assad until he ends what the president called a criminal pattern of killing his own people with internationally banned chemical weapons.

At least 40 people died in the chemical attack in Douma last Saturday, about 10 miles east of Damascus, and more than 500 people, mostly women and children, were injured and brought to medical centers.

The attack occurred amid a resumed offensive by Syrian government forces after the collapse of a truce. Syrian activists, rescuers and medics said families suffocated in their homes.

Assad's actions, Trump said, "are not the actions of a man," but "are the crimes of a monster instead."

"The evil and the despicable attack left mothers and fathers, infants and children, thrashing in pain and gasping for air. These are not the actions of a man; they are crimes of a monster instead," Trump said.

A similar chemical attack in Khan Sheikhoun in April 2017 that killed nearly 100 people prompted the U.S. to launch dozens of cruise missiles at a Syrian airfield to dissuade Assad from using chemical weapons in the future, officials said. But during the weekend, images of dead and sick women and children again circulated following another alleged chemical attack.

Trump also hit Russia and Iran for their sustained support of the Assad regime.

"The nations of the world can be judged by the friends that they keep," he continued. "Russia must decide if it will continue down this dark path or continue with civilized nations."

Fox News’ Matt Richardson, Edmund DeMarche, Lucas Tomlinson, Ben Evansky, Alex Pappas and the Associated Press contributed to this report.In Peru on Saturday, Vice President Mike Pence plans to address Latin American leaders on Friday's U.S.-led airstrikes in Syria, which were a response to last week's suspected chemical attack by the Assad regime.

Pence is filling in for President Donald Trump, who decided to skip the Summit of the Americas in Lima, Peru, so he could manage the U.S. response in Syria.

Pence was at his hotel in Lima when Trump announced the retaliatory airstrikes on Friday night from the White House.

Aides said Pence was in touch with Trump "multiple times" as he traveled to Peru aboard Air Force Two and also conferred with newly appointed national security adviser John Bolton.

At the summit, the vice president also plans to meet with Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, who has yet to meet with Trump amid an impasse over the wall Trump has pledged to build along the U.S.-Mexico border.

Pence's meeting with Pena Nieto will follow Trump's recent calls for National Guard troops to be stationed along the border.

Much of Pence's message at the summit will be aimed at building support for further isolating Venezuela, which has faced a political crisis under President Nicolas Maduro.

The vice president said Maduro has turned Venezuela into a dictatorship and has brought about "abject misery."

The U.S. has sanctioned Maduro and dozens of top officials, accusing the country of human rights abuses.

Pence announced that the U.S. would provide nearly $16 million in humanitarian assistance to Venezuelans who have fled their country and met with opposition leaders who pleaded for more sanctions.

In meetings with Latin American leaders, Pence plans to promote "good governance and democratic institutions" and urge allies to maintain pressure on Maduro.

Maduro was barred from the summit over his plans to hold a presidential election that the Venezuelan opposition is boycotting and that many foreign governments consider a sham.

Pence also met with a Cuban opposition leader along the sidelines of the international summit.

Pence told Rosa Maria Paya Acevedo Friday that the Trump administration stands with the Cuban people.

Trump has partially rolled back former President Barack Obama's diplomatic opening with the communist island.

Relations between the countries have also been strained amid mysterious sonic attacks that U.S. diplomats in Havana said have left them with ailments including headaches, hearing problems and concussions.

Pence is also expected to meet with the leaders of Argentina, Chile, Colombia and Peru.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The nation's oldest and largest advocacy group for Syrian Americans said Friday that it applauded President Donald Trump’s decision to take military action in Syria and enforce international law prohibiting the use of chemical weapons.

“We send our sincere thanks to the administration for holding [Syrian leader Bashar] Assad accountable for Sunday’s chemical attack in Douma, and the crimes against humanity over the past seven years of the Syrian war,” the Washington-based Syrian American Council (SAC) said in a statement.

The SAC said it sees Trump's action as a “genuine opportunity” to end Syria's war, a conflict in which the Assad regime has employed chemical weapons, barrel bombs and cluster munitions used “to target and kill civilians.”

“We urge President Trump and the coalition to sustain the strikes and to ground Assad’s air force, creating a No-Fly Zone and thereby disabling the Assad regime’s ability to commit further war crimes and mass atrocities,” the council said.

“We urge President Trump and the coalition to sustain the strikes and to ground Assad’s air force, creating a No-Fly Zone and thereby disabling the Assad regime’s ability to commit further war crimes and mass atrocities.” - Syrian American Council statement

The council said it remains “optimistic” that the Trump administration will work with the Syrian people to “remove Assad, put an end to the slaughter, and bring about peace, freedom, and democracy in Syria.”

The SAC’s mission is to empower the Syrian-American community to organize and advocate for a “free, democratic, secular and pluralistic Syria through American support,” according to its website.

The organization said that all means to politically and peacefully implement United Nations solutions have been tried to no avail, adding that Syria's allies in Russia and Iran continue to destroy de-escalation zones.

According to a fact sheet on SAC’s website, around 40 percent of Syria’s pre-war population of 22 million people are refugees, which equates to almost 10 million people.

The SAC also urged providing assistance to opposition forces to “empower them to collaborate with the United States and other international governments to fight terrorism and terrorist factions in Syria.”

But Syrian-Americans are not unanimous in support of Trump's Friday action. A separate group called the Syrian American Forum (SAF) says it opposes the U.S.-led intervention.

Ghias Moussa, head of the group's New York and New Jersey chapters, told USA Today that the Trump administration should not push for regime change in Syria.

“We don’t think that killing more innocent people in Syria by bombing them will rectify what has happened, whether it was done by the Assad regime or not,” Moussa told the newspaper.

“Americans should not change regimes around the world to get somebody we like and fight people we don’t like.”

Meanwhile, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres released a statement Friday commenting on the reports of air strikes in Syria by the U.S. France, and Britain.

“Any use of chemical weapons is abhorrent,” Guterres said. “I have repeatedly expressed my deep disappointment that the Security Council failed to agree on a dedicated mechanism for effective accountability for the use of chemical weapons in Syria. I urge the Security Council to assume its responsibilities and fill this gap.”

He also urged U.N. member states "to show restraint in these dangerous circumstances and to avoid any acts that could escalate the situation and worsen the suffering of the Syrian people.”Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Comedian Jimmy Failla and Fox News contributor Kat Timpf join Tom Shillue to discuss the most important stories of the day including ... James Comey's new book and Trump's reaction. PLUS: A list of the most un-PC songs.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Show Shillue Show LIVE Monday through Friday 3-6 pm Eastern! Find out more at TomShillueShow.comAfter every mass shooting, liberal's always bring up Australia and how they banned guns in 1996 following a mass public shooting. They say strict gun laws reduced violence and stopped mass shootings.

The problem is ... this is a myth. Australia's strict gun laws didn't stop mass shootings.

On Friday's show, Bongino.com columnist Matt Palumbo join Tom Shillue to debunk this popular argument used by wanna be gun-grabbers.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

During his Secretary of State confirmation hearing, CIA Director Mike Pompeo was grilled by Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ) about whether he had ever been interviewed by President and CEO of Center for Security Policy Frank Gaffney regarding his views on Muslims. Sen. Booker also pressed Pompeo on the nature of those remarks.

Gaffney joined Todd Starnes on his radio show to not only clarify his views on Islam, but to give a full endorsement of Pompeo to be the next secretary of state. "This is a thoughtful, highly educated and very courageous man," Gaffney said. "I really think he's a terrific choice for secretary of state at this moment in our history."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Listen to the whole interview here:

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

As James Comey begins his media blitz for his book, President Trump on Friday slammed the former FBI Director as an "untruthful slime ball." Meanwhile, the Republican National Committee has launched an aggressive campaign to paint Comey as a liar with its "LyinComey.com" website.

Todd Starnes spoke with RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel, who held nothing back when criticizing Comey. "The way he has peddled his story for money, using his time in office, spending time with the President to gain a buck...I don't think that's very honorable", she said.

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Want each new episode of this podcast as soon as it's out? SUBSCRIBE: CLICK HERE!

Shannon Bream, host of FOX News @ Night on the FOX News Channel returns with new "Livin' The Bream" podcast. This week Anna Willey has assembled a list of viewers and listeners questions for Shannon.

Listen to the latest "Livin' The Bream":

Follow Shannon on Twitter: @ShannonBream and on Facebook: ShannonBreamTVPlay Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

FOX News Radio's National Correspondent Jared Halpern along with a team of FOX News reporters & contributors look at the week that was inside the beltway.

THIS WEEK:

Wednesday morning House Speaker Paul Ryan announced he would not seek re-election next year. FOX's Senior Capitol Hill producer, Chad Pergram, discusses the effect on the GOP and their prospects in November.

Speaker Ryan has been in politics nearly 20 years, representing his hometown district in Wisconsin. Rachel spoke with Fox News Radio's Midwest Correspondent, Jeff Monosso, about Ryan's roots.

Former FBI Director James Comey is the latest to pen a book regarding President Trump. Jared asks Jon Decker, FOX's White House Correspondent, will Robert Mueller care what Comey has to say?

Facebook CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, spent two days on Capitol Hill testifying over the recent Cambridge Analytica scandal. FOX on tech reporter, Brett Larson breaks down how the tech industry is responding to Zuckerberg's testimony.

Listen to the latest "From Washington":

Follow Jared on Twitter: @JaredHalpern

Follow Rachel on Twitter: @SutherlandFoxPlay Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

A former Miami Dolphins cheerleader recently filed a complaint against the team and the NFL alleging that she was discriminated against because of her Christian beliefs. Kristan Ware, who spent three seasons as a cheerleader with the Dolphins, said in her complaint that cheerleading coaches mocked her after it was learned that she was a virgin, and that she planned on waiting for marriage to have sex.

Ware told Todd Starnes on his radio program that her belief in not having sex before marriage is "something that I value and I don't push it on anyone." She also said, "I have to be obedient to God, and speaking up was something I believed God prepared me for a year."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Ware's attorney, Sara Blackwell, also joined the program and said, "It was obviously clear that there was gender and religious discrimination and intimidation going on within this organization."

Listen to the whole interview here:

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th Birthday

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' Book

A Virginia Republican congressman and retired Navy SEAL credited President Donald Trump with completing a "measured [and] calculated" action in Syria, united with the French and British military.

Rep. Scott Taylor, who represents Norfolk and Cape Charles, said many people in his district are serving in the military.

"If there is anything going on in the world, our people are there," he said of his constituency, which includes a major Naval installation.

Taylor said he takes all international military action seriously, but added that he understands Trump's position.

"Just like the president, I'm torn too," he said in regards to concerns of further expanding military action internationally. "I think he listened to his advisers, and I do think he had the right balance in tone and action."

Taylor said Russia failed to uphold "its end of the bargain," in an apparent reference to a deal struck between the Kremlin and Obama administration that was supposed to make Syria rid itself of chemical weapons.

He added that he is very "vocal" about the 17-year-old Authorization for the Use of Military Force, a referendum that has allowed for military action in the wake of 9/11 without direct consent of Congress.

Taylor said the AUMF referendum should be updated for more recent circumstances and said that if Trump seeks a "sustained effort," he should confer with Congress, as required by Article I of the Constitution.

Oliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, Russia

Coulter: Cohen Raid Was Attempt By Mueller to Get Trump to Fire Him'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th Birthday

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' Book

Speaking at the Summit of the Americas in Lima, Peru, Vice President Mike Pence warned Russia that it's "on the wrong side of history" following the allied bombing of Syrian weapons facilities.

His comments came as he was asked if he had a message for Moscow after the United States, United Kingdom and France joined forces to take out Syrian chemical weapons capabilities after a recent, lethal attack on civilians.

"You're known by the company you keep," he said. "It's time for Russia to get the message that President Trump delivered last night."

On night’s like tonight, I am mindful of the daily sacrifices our brave men and women in uniform — and their families — make everyday. To our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines and Coast Guard...thank you. You are the best of us. — Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) April 14, 2018

Pence said that Russia appears to have balked at a 2014 agreement the Kremlin made with then-Secretary of State John Kerry.

Kerry negotiated an agreement wherein the Assad regime in Syria would rid themselves of all of their chemical weapons, and Russia would be the "guarantor" of the deal - in Pence's words.

"Russia has been standing by, aiding and abetting this brutal [Assad] regime," he said, inviting the Kremlin to "join the family of nations" in opposing Assad's government and breaking from fellow Syrian ally Iran.

Pence added that he met with Peruvian President Pedro Pablo Kucyzinski - as well as Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, with whom he discussed NAFTA.

Watch more above.

Oliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, Russia

Coulter: Cohen Raid Was Attempt By Mueller to Get Trump to Fire HimOliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, Russia

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' Book

A statue of the nation's third president at the university he founded was vandalized Friday.

At the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, a statue of a seated Thomas Jefferson had the words "racist + rapist" scrawled in red spray paint on what would be his 275th birthday.

Jefferson, who authored of the Declaration of Independence and founded UVA, along with numerous other accomplishments, is normally honored on his birthday during "Founder's Day."

Last night, "Racist + Rapist" was spraypainted on a statue of Thomas Jefferson in #Charlottesville in anticipation of "Founders Day," when Cville celebrates this white supremacist's birthday. @CvilleBLM wrote the following statement: pic.twitter.com/sMqK8TB8oI — Solidarity Cville (@SolidCville) April 13, 2018

The Jefferson home, Monticello, lies a short distance on the other side of Interstate 64 from campus.

Jefferson has drawn criticism as the nationwide controversy over public statuary gained steam.

He was known to own slaves, and is rumored to have fathered a child with a servant named Sally Hemings.

A university spokesperson slammed the defacement of Jefferson's statue, telling the Washington Post that UVA "recognizes the complexities of Thomas Jefferson's legacy and continues to explore them fully and honestly."

"UVA welcomes open and civil discourse on such important issues, however acts of vandalism do not contribute to meaningful discussion," Anthony de Bruyn said.

Happy 275th birthday, Thomas Jefferson! Join us on Facebook @TJMonticello at 9:45am for a livestream of today’s ceremony featuring the remarks of Cary Fowler, founder of the Svalbard Global Seed Vault and performances by the U.S. Army Fife and Drum Corps. pic.twitter.com/8VypOhjw9L — Monticello (@TJMonticello) April 13, 2018

Facilities department workers were called to fix the statue and law enforcement is investigating.

Hillary Praises Maxine Waters for Pushing Back on 'White Supremacist' Views From White House

'Preaching to a Very Stupid Choir': Watters, 'The Five' Hosts Sound Off on Joy BeharOliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, Russia

Rep. Jordan Rips McCabe's 'Scheming': 'That's What Troubles All of America'

Conservative author and attorney Ann Coulter said special counsel Robert Mueller was "trying to get himself fired" by overseeing the office of Trump lawyer Michael Cohen being raided by federal agents.

Coulter said on "Lou Dobbs Tonight" that the probe into alleged collusion between President Trump and Russia has morphed into probe into the president's alleged one-night-stand with pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels.

She said that fact "proves there's no Russian collusion" and that Mueller has no case for such.

"He's going for his reputation. He can't go over to MSNBC and say there's no Russian collusion," Coulter said of Mueller and why the Bush-era FBI director has worked so intensely.

Coulter added that Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz, a career civil servant appointed by President Obama, is the person who deserves to most credit in the investigation.

"He was the one who exposed Peter Strzok and Lisa Page. He's obviously what people have been waiting for in Washington. He's what people claim James Comey and Robert Mueller are [in terms of honesty]," she said of Horowitz.

Lou Dobbs said Horowitz separate investigation is "straight up, stand up, yeoman's work."

Hillary Praises Maxine Waters for Pushing Back on 'White Supremacist' Views From White House

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' BookHillary Praises Maxine Waters for Pushing Back on 'White Supremacist' Views From White House

'Preaching to a Very Stupid Choir': Watters, 'The Five' Hosts Sound Off on Joy Behar

Retired Marine Corps Lt. Col. Oliver North said the coalition attack on Syrian military and chemical weapons facilities sends an "important message" to not only the Assad government, but also Iran and Russia.

North said the two nations are "enablers" of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, and that by America joining with allies France and Great Britain, the attack illustrates allied resolve.

"There are a lot of players in this," he added, saying that several countries other than the three western allies are concerned about the present state of Syria.

"Syria is a totally failed state," he said. "The ultimate outcome is going to be a completely different map."

He said that Egypt, Jordan, the U.A.E., Qatar and Saudi Arabia all supported the mission, which followed a suspected chlorine gas attack that killed Syrian civilians.

Geraldo Rivera added that Trump also deserves credit for his leadership on the issue, saying that Americans must "rebel against the tabloid crap" like the Stormy Daniels allegations.

Watch more above.

Charlize Theron Considers Leaving America: 'Racism Is Much More Alive and Well'

'The Swamp Is Winning': Gianno Caldwell Blames Omnibus Bill for Slowing Down Federal ReformHillary Praises Maxine Waters for Pushing Back on 'White Supremacist' Views From White House

'Preaching to a Very Stupid Choir': Watters, 'The Five' Hosts Sound Off on Joy Behar

Tucker Carlson and Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz discussed former FBI Director Jim Comey's new book.

Dershowitz said he once respected the longtime law enforcement official but now holds only "very strong negative feelings" about him.

He said the new book appears "revenge-driven" from a man still upset that President Donald Trump defeated Hillary Clinton.

Dershowitz, who supported Clinton, said Comey openly speculated about a report in an unverified, partially Russian-sourced dossier that Trump engaged in sex acts with Moscow prostitutes.

He said that, as FBI director, Comey would "know the truth" about such a sensitive issue, adding that the report is still "nonsense and rubbish" without merit.

Dershowitz called the book a "gossipy revenge, make-money-quick" scheme by Comey with the added goal of hurting political opponents.

"[Comey] is exactly the wrong person to have headed the most important law enforcement agency in the U.S.," Dershowitz said.

Carlson said Comey's ongoing public sparring with Trump hurts the "remaining public trust" in the FBI.

Watch more above.

Charlize Theron Considers Leaving America: 'Racism Is Much More Alive and Well'

'The Swamp Is Winning': Gianno Caldwell Blames Omnibus Bill for Slowing Down Federal Reform'Liberal Elitism': Pierson Rips Michelle Obama For Comparing Trump to Bad Parent

Former Clinton Strategist to Hillary: Be Gracious Like Al Gore Was

Hillary Clinton on Thursday slammed the Trump administration for promoting "racist and white supremacist" views while praising her "dear friend" Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) for being one of the leading opposition voices.

During her keynote speech at the Ida B. Wells Legacy Luncheon in Chicago -- which helps help raise money for a political action committee aimed supporting progressive African-American women in politics -- Clinton said the U.S. is locked in a struggle with itself to determine what kind of country we want to be.

“We are living in challenging times. We’re living through a war on truth, facts and reason, watching as racist and white supremacist views are lifted up in the media and in the White House,” Clinton said. “But despite it all, there are signs of hope and resilience, and much of that is being led and shaped by black women like my dear friend Maxine Waters.”

Waters has long been one of President Trump's most outspoken critics, frequently calling for his impeachment.

On "Mornings With Maria," Dr. Gina Loudon said actions speak louder than words, and Trump's policies have benefited African American communities.

She pointed out that African American home ownership is at an all-time high, while unemployment is at an all-time low.

She added that eventually Clinton will step off the political stage, and the only question is how she will exit.

"You can either embrace a legacy and exit gracefully. Or you can exit like a petulant child that seems unhinged to the American public and only further damages a party that's already in complete disarray," Loudon said. "Seems that she's choosing the latter."

See more of Clinton's remarks at the luncheon below.

Guilfoyle on Clinton's Election Complaints: 'Nobody Likes a Sore Loser'

Malkin: Soros, 'Left-Wing Character Assassins' Behind Efforts to Silence ConservativesCharlize Theron Considers Leaving America: 'Racism Is Much More Alive and Well'

Jesse Watters ripped Joy Behar over her comments that Kim Jong Un and Vladimir Putin have more sanity than President Trump, saying she is "preaching to a very stupid choir."

Behar, a co-host on ABC chat-fest "The View," made the comments Thursday in response to Trump's tweets threatening military action against Syria.

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

“We have gotten to the point in this world now where we have to rely on the sanity of Kim Jong Un and Putin over the president of the United States,” she said.

Watters noted that Trump's tweets had nothing to do with any confirmed action, and that he was just responding to the chemical attack in Douma.

"[Any] person that knows anything about the news knows this," Watters said. "[Behar] is preaching to a very stupid choir."

Behar went on to ask conservative co-host Meghan McCain if she thought Putin and Kim were less "moral" than the president, and "on what topic."

"Chemical gassing of children," McCain answered. "Last time I checked, America isn't doing that to anyone."

Greg Gutfeld said that Behar "has PTSD -- that's 'President Trump Stress Disorder. That means no matter what he does, it's through this emotional this emotional prism that makes her upset."

"Joy needs more joy in her life," Gutfeld said.

Kimberly Guilfoyle added that Behar's remarks were inappropriate and disturbing, noting the "horrific" type of leadership Kim has cast on his own people.

"You might as well throw [Syrian President Bashar] al-Assad in there," she said.

Watch "The Five" discuss Behar's remarks above.

Ben Shapiro Takes on Penn State Students' Push to Defund Conservative 'Hate Groups'

Whoopi Goldberg: Riots Over Trump Firing Mueller 'Would Be Fun to Watch'

Piers Morgan: Left Can't Prove Trump-Russia Collusion, So They're 'Moving the Goalposts'Ben Shapiro Takes on Penn State Students' Push to Defund Conservative 'Hate Groups'

Actress Charlize Theron said in an interview that she has considered leaving the United States for the sake of her adopted children due to increased concerns over "racism."

"I don’t even know how to talk about the last year under our new administration. But racism is much more alive and well than people thought," she told Elle Magazine.

Theron said due to the current political and social climates in the country, she wants to ensure her African-American children, ages six and two, feel safe.

"There are places in this country where, if I got a job, I wouldn’t take it. I wouldn’t travel with my kids to some parts of America, and that’s really problematic," she said.

"There are a lot of times when I look at my kids and I’m like, If this continues, I might have to [leave America]. Because the last thing I want is for my children to feel unsafe."

Theron, 42, was born in South Africa and grew up during the country's apartheid era.

"They’re going to have to know that it’s a different climate for them than it is for me, and how unfair that is," the Oscar winner said of her children.

The interview was conducted by comedian Chelsea Handler, who has been a vocal critic of President Trump.

Piers Morgan: Left Can't Prove Trump-Russia Collusion, So They're 'Moving the Goalposts'

Whoopi Goldberg: Riots Over Trump Firing Mueller 'Would Be Fun to Watch'

Gingrich: Giving Mueller This Much Power 'Is a Threat to Every American'Bolton on Trump's Iran Deal Meeting: 'Putting Lipstick on a Pig' Won't Make a Difference

Fox News political analyst Gianno Caldwell said Thursday night that although President Trump seems to be fulfilling his promise of "draining the swamp," his recently approved omnibus bill has started to fill it back up.

"The swamp certainly appears that they’re winning," Caldwell said. "Especially when you talk about the budget bill that just passed."

Caldwell referred to the massive $1.3 trillion bill as a "slap in the face to every conservative that voted for President Trump."

He also said the president should have vetoed the bill, which Trump threatened to do before ultimately signing it.

Trump signed the 2,232-page legislation reluctantly -- which prevented a government shutdown -- but then said, "I will never sign another bill like this again."

I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 23, 2018

The president, though, asserted Thursday that his administration is following through on its promise.

"Sometimes it may not look like it, but believe me, we are draining the swamp ... and people don't like it," he said at a White House press conference.

Conversely, former Hillary Clinton director of strategic communications Adrienne Elrod said Trump isn't draining the swamp at all, pointing to reported actions taken by EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt.

"Sometimes I don't even think that he believes the words that are coming out of his mouth," she said.

Watch more above.

'Republicans Are Supposed to Be the Party of Restraint': Hurt Says Spending Bill Could Hurt GOP in Midterms

Trump: Democrats 'Fought Every Single Inch of the Way' on DACA

Bolton, Chosen as New Nat'l Security Adviser, Says Leaks Are 'Completely Unacceptable'Obada Alstof, a 21-year-old opposition activist from the northern countryside of Homs, was woken up with a loud jolt and tremor in the early hours of Saturday morning.

It came as a welcome surprise.

“The explosions were so loud,” Alstof told Fox News in the immediate aftermath. “We had no idea what was happening but we immediately expected that the international coalition was targeting the regime locations.”

The United States and its allies wasted little time before retaliating against the Bashar al-Assad regime over its use last week of chemical weapons, sending bombs raining down at a former missile base - some 15 miles west of Homs. That's where the regime is believed to keep chemical-weapon precursors stockpiled -- in violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention.

According to Pentagon officials, a number of facilities were struck: a chemical weapons storage facility; a chemical weapons equipment storage and crucial command post near Homs; and a scientific research facility in Damascus, believed to be key in the production of chemical and biological weapons.

Alsatof lives just miles from the Scientific Research Center in the western countryside of Homs, in a rebel-held area besieged by Syrian forces.

What will happen next?

Immediately after the U.S.-led strikes, those in the neighborhood started calling one another and speculating on what would happen next.

“We hope for the future that strikes will expand to include all the Syrian regime and its supported militias’ military locations," Alstof continued, "because the regime and its allies are committing massacres against the civilians every day.”

“We hope for the future that strikes will expand to include all the Syrian regime and its supported militias’ military locations, because the regime and its allies are committing massacres against the civilians every day.” - Obada Alstof, 21, of Homs, an anti-Assad activist

Others were wrought with mixed emotions.

“Early morning today, I woke up because of the sound of Syrian anti-aircraft. I did not see the explosions but I heard the sounds,” Zilal Mansour, a 33-year-old in Damascus, recalled. “These were weaker compared to the sounds of shelling in Al-Ghouta, although I knew that military area near my residential ‘Barza’ was being targeted.”

Mansour said she didn’t feel any shaking, but was left with a kind of emptiness that comes in the heat of long and arduous war.

“I did not feel anything, I was not sad or happy. Assad should be punished,” she said. “But would this strike be like the previous one? Or is it for pressing him for political concessions?”

Meanwhile, Said al-Hamawi, 20, a business student at a private Damascus university, said he saw a rocket shoot across the sky around 5:30 a.m., heading from the west to the northeast before being hit by Syrian anti-aircraft defense mechanisms.

“It exploded in the sky. It was very clear. There were far explosions in the sky, but that was the clearest,” Hamawi recalled. “I hope that this attack will achieve almost Assad's weapons destruction, whıch will rid the Syrians civilians of weapons that will be used against them.”

"We don't want to see our people killed'

Further north in Syria from Kobane to Manbij, currently under control of the U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), news of the strikes was met, overall, quite favorably among locals, who still deeply fear retaliation from the authoritarian regime.

“If we know the U.S. will stay here long-term to protect us, it is no problem, we can speak freely,” one local explained in Manbij. “But until then, we don’t know what will happen. We don’t want to see our people killed in retaliation. The situation is too sensitive.”

Nonetheless, others were quick to indicate that the strikes were less effective than they could have been. Reports from within Syrian regime territory claimed that advance warnings from Russia gave them leeway to evacuate the bases, and furthermore, insist several of the missiles were shot down.

“Assad during the previous days transferred many aircraft and weapons from their places to another one. Most of the targeted areas were empty and only the building has been damaged,” Ayman Bakla, 53, a retired worker in Damascus, lamented. “Assad came out on the television a little while ago, going to his office with a message to the world that ‘I am fine and your beating did not affect.’”

Mansour too noted that a few days prior to the attack, when escalations were brewing, many people aligned with Assad thought that if the American strike had happened, it would be like the previous one and that Russia would protect them -- so they opted to “not take it seriously.”

The strike has also provided a propaganda opportunity for Syrian government loyalists.

'It is time to be judged'

On Saturday morning, regime supporters were encouraging each other to gather near Umaween Square, near the Syrian television building, to “declare their victory over the American aggression.”

Several people in opposition areas within Damascus indicated that the response paled in comparison to the level of shelling inflicted on the Ghouta area by regime and Russian forces.

Yet the symbolism of striking back is a potent one.

“The Assad regime has continued using chemical weapons on Syrian people, causing unlimited murders at the expense of Syrians. It is time to be judged for the crimes,” Firas al-Marhoum, an Eastern Ghouta-based youth and human rights activist, said. “I hope the global coalition will do more strikes on the Assad regime to punish it for his murders. I hope these strikes will not stop until Assad’s departure.”

“I hope the global coalition will do more strikes on the Assad regime to punish it for his murders. I hope these strikes will not stop until Assad’s departure.” - Firas al-Marhoum, activist in Eastern Ghouta

While it remains to be seen what happens next, Syrians are hopeful of a newfound resolution.

“The U.S. will push to accelerate the Geneva process to reach a political solution in Syria,” Ayman Abdel Nour, founder of Syrian Christians for Peace, and a key player in Washington and opposition dialogue, said regarding the conflict. “Russia asked to reduce the strike in order to keep its face, in exchange to push for a real political solution, which requires Assad to be out.”House Dem: Trump 'Scapegoats' Immigrants to Distract From Mueller, Stormy Daniels

Chris Wallace said Friday that President Trump is engaged in an "unprecedented attack" on the mainstream media, something he has found particularly "distressing."

The "Fox News Sunday" anchor pointed to a joint news conference this week with leaders from three Baltic states, where Trump told the Latvian president not to call on a member of the U.S. "fake news."

"It's a different thing when it's on the international stage. I've never heard a president bash the media when he's dealing with foreign leaders," Wallace said.

Today, it was my honor to welcome Estonia President @KerstiKaljulaid, Lithuania President @Grybauskaite_LT, and Latvia President @Vejonis to the @WhiteHouse. Congratulations on your 100th anniversaries of independence! #BalticSummit: https://t.co/XAchZ3zUSe pic.twitter.com/RRftyTGEvb — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 3, 2018

Conversely, Wallace believes there has been bias toward Trump among some members of the mainstream media and in newspapers.

"I think both of those things are true, and I'm not sure that it's especially healthy for the country," Wallace added.

Fox News contributor Newt Gingrich also wrote in an op-ed piece Thursday that he believes "the elite media’s intense and pervasive hostility has begun to vaccinate the American people against its opposition to President Trump."

He added that among all of the "chaos" the press has said is taking place in the White House, his approval ratings have gone up and that Trump is "winning and the elite media is not."

Watch the segment from "America's Newsroom" above.

Trump Tells Latvian President to Call on Baltic Reporter, Not 'Fake News' US Press

Trump on 'Caravan' of Migrants: US Military Will Guard Mexican Border Until Wall Is Built

'Flame of Hate': Vicente Fox Unleashes Tweetstorm at Trump Over Immigration-NAFTA ThreatAn 18-year-old aspiring model was killed and two others injured after the BMW they were traveling in crashed while on its way to the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival.

Ginevra Gallone-Latte, 18, was killed and passenger Manuela Cerciello-Rahbari, 16, sustained life-threatening injuries after a BMW they were traveling in crashed into two trees, CBS 8 reported.

The driver of the vehicle, Cesar Hernandez-Ozuna, 21, sustained a laceration to his face. Cerciello-Rahabari was taken to Desert Regional Medical Center in Palm Springs. All three passengers are San Diego natives.

BILLIONAIRE SEEKS TO SPLIT CALIFORNIA INTO 3 STATES

The BMW was traveling eastbound on Interstate 10 early Thursday morning, FOX 5 San Diego reported. The California Highway Patrol said the vehicle was driving at a high speed when it drifted off the road and onto the dirt should.

Officials said the driver tried to steer the 2009 BMW 328i back onto the road but lost control before it drove down an embankment and hit two trees. The car was split in two, and Gallone-Latte was ejected from the vehicle. Authorities pronounced the aspiring model dead at the scene.

🤨 A post shared by 🔥Ginevra❄️ (@ginnigallonelatte) on Feb 2, 2018 at 6:17pm PST

The vehicle was stocked with food, camping equipment and alcohol but authorities have ruled out drugs and alcohol as possible factors of the wreck.

“The BMW was loaded with food, alcohol and camping gear as all three people were on their way to the Coachella Festival at the Empire Polo Grounds in Indio," the California Highway Patrol said in a statement.

TRUMP ADMINISTRATION SUES CALIFORNIA OVER FEDERAL LAND SALES

Cerciello-Rahbari is a student at La Jolla High School where Gallone-Latte also attended.

The school said in a statement it was “saddened by the loss of one of its former students.”

A post shared by 🔥Ginevra❄️ (@ginnigallonelatte) on May 31, 2017 at 6:10am PDT

“Our condolences go out to the student’s family and friends during this difficult time, and we wish the best for the other individuals involved as they recover. Counselors have been on campus to provide support to students and staff, and will be available indefinitely to assist anyone in need. The La Jolla High community is strong and we will support one another during this time,” the statement read.

The California Highway Patrol said they were investigating the crash.A Michigan teenager said he was almost killed Thursday after he knocked on a homeowner’s door asking for directions after he missed the bus.

Brennan Walker, 14, woke up late Thursday morning and missed his bus to Rochester High School. The teen, without a phone after his mother took it away, decided to knock on a person’s door in Rochester Hills for help, FOX 2 Detroit reported.

"I got to the house, and I knocked on the lady's door. Then she started yelling at me and she was like, 'Why are you trying to break into my house?' I was trying to explain to her that I was trying to get directions to Rochester High. And she kept yelling at me. Then the guy came downstairs, and he grabbed the gun, I saw it and started to run. And that's when I heard the gunshot," Walker told FOX 2 Detroit.

Walker said the man missed the shot and then the teen hid and cried. The teen said he is glad he didn’t become a statistic.

LAWSUIT ALLEGES MICHIGAN ILLEGALY OBTAINS NEWBORNS’ BLOOD

"My mom says that black boys get shot because sometimes they don't look their age, and I don't look my age. I'm 14, but I don't look 14. I'm kind of happy that, like, I didn't become a statistic," he said.

Following the incident, Jeffrey Zeigler, 53, the homeowner, was taken into custody and charged with “assault with intent to murder; and felony firearms.” He posted the $50,000 bond and was ordered not to go within 10 miles of Walker which means he cannot return home until the case is over.

The media outlet reported Zeigler was arrested in 2004 after shooting at a car in a road rage dispute on a Michigan highway. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and was sentenced to one year of probation.

"We are going to ask for every charge permissible for this guy, who stepped up and fired a shotgun because someone knocked on his door," Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said. "I feel terrible for the young man. I feel terrible for the mom and the anxiety that they had to go through."

Walker's mother said investigators showed her a recording of the encounter captured by the home's doorbell monitor.

ENGLER: MICHIGAN STATE REGRETS RESPONSE TO RAPE LAWSUIT

"After watching the video and hearing the wife say 'Why did these people choose my house?' I knew it was racially motivated," Lisa Wright told WXYZ-TV. "I don't know what other 'these people' she could possibly have been talking about. He was by himself."

Authorities have not released the surveillance tape.

Lisa Wright said she was at work when received the call about her son. Her husband is currently deployed in Syria.

Wright said people in the neighborhood shouldn't be afraid of a child, "let alone a skin tone."

"We should not have to live in a society where we have to fend for ourselves. If I have a question, I should be able to turn to my village and knock on a door and ask a question. I shouldn't be fearful of a child, let alone a skin tone," she added. "This is a decent neighborhood. If anything -- why would I knock on your door to rob you?"

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A woman who died after being set on fire by her boyfriend will testify at his murder trial from beyond the grave.

Judy Malinowski, 33, died in August 2017, two years after being torched by her boyfriend Michael Slager outside a gas station near Columbus, Ohio, in June 2015 but recorded a video in hospital before she lost her fight for life.

Slager goes on trial for her murder in July, and in a rare move, a judge has allowed the interview Malinowski gave from her hospital bed to be heard by the jury. The judge ruled Friday.

The mother of two suffered burns to 80 percent of her body and clung to life in a hospital for two years.

Slager was charged with assault and was due to go to trial in 2016.

OHIO WOMAN SET ON FIRE BY EX-BOYFRIEND HAS DIED, FAMILY SAYS

Malinowski recorded her video testimony for his court case from her hospital bed.

Slager’s attorneys tried to stop the tape from being used by citing a legal technicality.

They claimed it was improperly obtained by prosecutors.

But the judge allowed it on the grounds that it is an unprecedented case where the victim is able to give evidence after their own death.

Malinowski also spoke to the media from her hospital bed before she died.

Although she could barely speak, she managed to say: "I never knew that a human being could be so evil. He just stood there and did nothing."

"God please, please help me," she said.

Slager has always maintained that he set her on fire by accident when he lit a cigarette.

BURN VICTIM WHO COULDN'T TESTIFY AGAINST EX-BOYFRIEND SHOWS HER INJURIES

After her death, Ohio passed Judy's Law, which added six years onto the sentence of anyone convicted of an assault which permanently maimed their victim.

Malinowski lost both of her ears and two fingers in the attack and was left with open wounds on her back and buttocks.

She underwent 56 surgeries before she died.

Malinowski also suffered horrendous damage to her throat and never walked again after the incident.

Click here for more from The Sun.A military convoy rolled down a rubbled road outside the northern Syrian city of Manjib on Saturday afternoon, just hours after news that the U.S and allied forces had struck a number of Syrian regime facilities in and around the capital of Damascus.

Gule, a young female soldier with the 5,000-strong Manbij Military Council (MMC) stops and stares in awe for a moment as they pass.

“It is beautiful,” she declares to no one in particular.

Gule’s sentiment is echoing this city once held by the Islamic State (ISIS), which now houses numerous U.S military installations backing the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) controlling much of the region.

After weeks of questions and concerns from locals over the U.S commitment to the region -- concerns fueled by President Trump’s recentstatement that would soon be pulled -- many see the U.S strikes against the authoritarian regime as a hopeful sign: Not only is America willing to take the lead against blatant violations putting civilians in dire peril, it is here to stay.

While much of Syria remains plagued by changing checkpoints and intermittent bombing, Manbij remains a bustling yet seemingly calm city. The streets are filled with markets and motorcycles, women and men roam freely through the bazaars and sip tea along the sidewalk.

“We are so happy the U.S. troops are here. The most important thing is we know we won’t be bombed when the U.S. is here,” said Khalid, a 31-year-old mobile phone seller and graduate of Homs University. “If they leave, we worry Russians will be the first to come in and bomb us. Right now, we are calm and comfortable.”

Mahmoud, a 60-year-old purveyor of sweets, also expressed gratitude over being spared the aerial bombardment that has ravaged much of Syria.

“Of all the players in Syria, America is better than the others,” he said. “Seven years of this war, and no one else has come to take care of us. I’m happy for this strike. This gives me hope.”

Mahmoud described Trump’s hardline approach as “heroic.”

“He said he would hit, so he did,” he continued.

Others, sitting in the streets with cigarettes and tea, said they weren’t familiar with all the political ins and outs, but recognized their environment was far more stable than others'.

“The most important thing is we have some stability,” noted Raheem, 45, a tradesman. “We just want to keep this peace. We want anyone who will help is keep this peace.”

But the peace, in which Kurds, Arabs, Turks and other minorities live together, remains fragile.

“ISIS can’t control Manbij again, but there are sleeper cells here. This is a big country and we liberated this city alongside the U.S.,” said Abu Adel, 39, head of the Manbij Military Council, who first joined the Syrian Revolution in 2011 as a fighter with the Free Syrian Army (FSA). “We still have threats, we still need their expertise.”

While ISIS and Turkey remain the most immediate concerns for the council, Adel pointed out that the regime brings with it a fear of losing their newfound freedom.

“When we started with the revolution, it was not about wanting Assad to leave. We just wanted changes, we wanted a chance to speak freely and we waited for the changes to happen,” he said. “But those changes did not happen. And the protests moved from peaceful to military.”

And overlooking a front line, amid growing concern that Turkish forces nearby could encroach farther into Manbij (given their concerns of hideouts occupied by designated terrorist group the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK)), one Manbij Military Council soldier Laurence reiterated his desire for the U.S. to stay engaged.

“I was so happy for this bombing. Innocent children should not be killed with chemicals. Fighting military troops is one thing, civilians is another,” Laurence said, before eagerly detailing his “life-saving” medic training under U.S. forces.

“We can defend ourselves, but having the U.S. morale behind us has been important. We hope they stay.”

Nonetheless, the future of Manbij remains unclear for now, prompting others to crave a time before the uprisings of 2011, which later developed into a bloody and protracted conflict.

“We don’t know what will happen tomorrow,” lamented Tahsin, a displaced Yazidi from Afrin living in an abandoned building in the Kurdish city of Kobane. Yazidi people are an ethnic minority in the region.

“We don’t know what Islamic rule could come in and whether we will allowed still to be Yazidi.”A woman says she got the best revenge on her cheating ex by shaming him in a funny tweet on what would’ve been their three-year wedding anniversary.

Andrea Osborn, 23, took to social media to publicly point out how much better off she is without her former husband, Rob Osborn. “Instead of celebrating our wedding anniversary, i’m celebrating dropping 285 pounds of dead weight,” she wrote in a tweet that has since gone viral.

NECCO WAFER FAN OFFERS TO EXCHANGE HER CAR FOR LAST OF THE CANDY

Andrea and Rob got married when they were both young and went through a lot when they were together. When Andrea found out Rob had cheated on her, the pair separated for a year before deciding to give their marriage another go. But the couple grew apart and ended up splitting for good, Yahoo Lifestyle reports.

A post shared by DREA 🌻🌻 (@andrea__lynette) on Jan 14, 2018 at 12:22pm PST

“When I found out he had cheated on me, I was completely devastated. I honestly didn’t suspect a thing. He finally opened up and told the truth a few months after it happened,” Andrea told Yahoo. “We both just fell out of love. We knew it wasn’t meant to be. It was difficult to go through,” she said of the couple’s breakup.

Rob wasn’t too happy with Andrea’s tweet, which had been retweeted over 1,000 times and had over 11,000 likes as of Friday afternoon. He asked her to delete it, but instead, she retweeted her original post, which became even more popular, receiving over 20,000 retweets and 100,000 likes.

“Rob was upset that I would do that. I really didn’t care that he was upset. He had lied to me. He has put me through a lot so I thought it was only fair,” she told Yahoo. “In a sense I wanted to show that I’m happy without him and help others who are also going through a breakup or divorce.”

A post shared by DREA 🌻🌻 (@andrea__lynette) on Feb 16, 2018 at 2:30pm PST

Andrea has received a lot of support from others over the tweet and her decision to end her relationship. Others going through the same thing shared their own stories.

“I've literally looked at this like a million times cause it just really makes me smile for you. You have come so far and it shows. I am so happy that you are happy,” one person wrote.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

“Me too sis! After 5 years I Thought I’d be getting engaged this year, but instead I’m loving myself more than I ever have,” another person wrote.

Rob says he’s rooting for Andrea and where she is in her life, but he’s still working on himself. “I constantly find ways to make myself a better man than what I was, [and] I can only hope the absolute best for Andrea and myself as we go down new roads in our future,” he told Yahoo."Big Bang Theory" star Kaley Cuoco is speaking out about her “cheap” ex-boyfriend.

The actress described meeting the mystery man at 19 years old in a video for “Vogue” that was posted online March 30, the Daily Mail reports.

Cuoco called him “a hot guy” and said he was an actor, but she refused to reveal his real name. However, "Vogue" notes that he was "really famous."

“Let’s call him… 'John,' because if I told you his name you’d know who he is,” she confided.

WARNING: Video contains profanity

The actress said they began going out “on all these really adorable dates" and described him as a "magical" person who everybody loved.

“He wanted to take me on a really nice romantic dinner date. It was kind of a surprise,” she continued. “And I was so excited, because we hadn’t really done this yet.”

She said things went well and she offered to pay the bill, but “John” refused — and also turned down her offer to go Dutch. At one point, she recalled him examining the bill “really seriously.”



“At first I thought maybe he couldn’t see, maybe he needed glasses, I didn’t know him too well,” she explained.

According to her account, John got out his phone and went to the calculator function to crunch some numbers.

“I start to get a little bit hot, cause I think I’m realizing what’s happening. He’s multiplying like an eight percent tip — oh my God, he’s cheap,” she said. “He’s cheap. He’s a bad tipper.”

Growing up, Cuoco said her father “was like this known big tipper” — and that she’d need to be with someone similar “cause I was that way.”

The poor tipping behavior apparently continued as the relationship progressed. Cuoco eventually described going out to dinner with “John” and her family — and he offered to take the check.

“Oh my God, yeah, I bet you’re f----ing taking everyone out tonight,” she said. “$600 hundred dollar bill. You’re gonna leave 13 bucks. I was horrified.”

Cuoco said she was unable to tell her dad that her boyfriend was cheap.

“I wouldn’t have been able to live with myself. No matter how hot he was,” she said.

Cuoco recalled going back into the restaurant once to tip the server and splitting with “John” a week later.

The star has already ruled out one guess, denying it was "Big Bang Theory" co-star and ex-boyfriend Johnny Galecki on Instagram, confirming that he's a "great tipper," according to the Daily Mail.An American boxer wearing boxing trunks depicting a brick-like border wall was unable to stop a Mexican opponent from scoring a decisive victory in Southern California.

The bout between Rod Salka and Francisco Varga got a lot of attention on social media after Salka wore the attention-grabbing shorts into the ring Thursday in Indio, Calif., KABC-TV reported.

His shorts had “America 1st” emblazoned on the waistband and a brick-wall pattern in American flag colors, according to the station.

But as the fight wore on, Salka was defenseless against Varga’s battering ram punches.

He crumbled in the fifth round and suffered more punishment in the sixth and final round, according to ESPN.

The ref awarded the fight Varga on a TKO.The cross-dressing trust-fund creep convicted of repeatedly raping two unconscious women was sentenced Friday to 10 years in the slammer.

Cameron McDermott, 32, tearfully apologized to his family and said he takes “responsibility for his actions” before Manhattan Supreme Court Justice Mark Dwyer meted out the sentence.

“I am ashamed to be standing here today. I want to apologize to all of those affected by my crimes. First and foremost, I want to apologize to the victims,” McDermott said in a low voice. “I am truly and deeply sorry for what I did.”

His parents, Rich and Laura — who hid behind a pair of sunglasses — were expressionless as they sat in the back row of the courtroom.

McDermott, of Hempstead, copped a plea deal in February that gave him prison time in exchange for pleading guilty to rape and sexual abuse, both in the first degree.

Click here to read more from the New York PostDramatic video shows a brave safari guide in South Africa stopping a charging elephant with a wave of his hand.

The guide prevented the bull elephant from trampling to death newlyweds Brett Larsen and Lulu Shi in Kruger National Park five days ago, the South African news outlet Independent Online reported Saturday.

Larsen said he was sharing the amazing footage to give the guide, named Dean, all the credit he deserved, the paper reported.

“Dean showed nerves of steel,” he said.

He said Dean stopped the elephant from charging at him and his wife three separate times without firing a shot.

The New Zealand couple was out walking on the last day of their honeymoon safari when they spotted the elephant at the top of a hill and stopped to admire it, according to the paper.

Suddenly, the elephant charged towards them.

“Dean, our lead guide, said, 'Don’t move,' so we stood there frozen in terror as the elephant charged down the hill at us,” Larsen told the paper.

“Straight away Dean had moved forward and become the target. He put his arm up and yelled 'Whoooa' and about (10 yards) away the elephant stopped dead in its tracks,” he said.

“With his right arm raised Dean was loudly commanding the elephant and it backed off.” Larsen said. “It was surreal. And what impressed me is that Dean didn’t raise his rifle once. This bloke stepped up to the mark and without hesitation and no fear put his body on the line.”The Bible is more than clear in its theological claim that Jesus Christ will return to Earth at an undisclosed, future time. In fact, that belief is a central hallmark of the Christian faith.

And the latter point about the timing is essential to highlight, as scripture makes it clear that no one knows exactly when the so-called “second coming” will unfold. Yet, once again, here we are with some people setting a specific date — April 23, 2018 — for the purported fulfillment of certain prophetic signs or events.

This follows other failed claims about the rapture and the end times — predictions that were set for September 23, 2017 and October 15, 2017, yet obviously never came to fruition.

The date-setting all seems quite bizarre, considering that the Bible repeatedly and clearly speaks to our inability to know exactly when end-times events — and particularly Jesus’ return — will unfold. Matthew 24:36-37 tells us, “But about that day or hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. As it was in the days of Noah, so it will be at the coming of the Son of Man” — and Mark 13:32 says the same.

My guess is that April 23 will be a day like any other. I wouldn’t worry; I wouldn’t panic. The best line of defense for those who believe the Bible is to be ready and waiting by following Jesus, living our lives right and sticking to our faith.

But as I noted in my book “The Armageddon Code: One Journalist's Quest for End-Times Answers,” time and again throughout history people have sought to ignore these verses and predict exactly when they believe the rapture — the belief that Christians will be taken up before cataclysmic, end-times events kick into high gear ­— or the end itself will unfold.

And time and again, they have been wrong, bringing embarrassment not only on themselves and their followers, but on Christians who take the whole of scripture into account when diving into the massively complex debate over eschatology (the study of the end times).

But no matter how many times these predictions fail, some people are still bent on advancing strange and unbiblical eschatological theories.

You might recall Christian leader Harold Camping, who made international headlines in 2011 for twice predicting that the world would end — and getting it wrong both times. In the days and weeks leading up to the dates he set, some of his followers were so convinced he was right that they sold their homes and spent their savings helping spread the message that judgement would soon be upon us.

In the end, they were likely shocked to learn that Camping, as the Bible clearly notes, couldn’t have possibly known the “day nor hour.”

So, that brings us back to April 23, a date that has sparked some chatter. The Express has more about what some end times enthusiasts are proclaiming:

According to conspiracy theorists, codes in the Bible suggest the end of the world is imminent, with Earth set to be destroyed on April 23.

One theory suggests the end times dates back to astrological constellations appearing on November 23, matching the book of Revelation 12:1-2.

The passage signals the start of the Rapture and the second coming of Jesus Christ.

This is pretty similar to what was “prophesied” last year before Sept. 23 when some said that the alignment of the stars, sun and moon pointed to a coming series of prophetic events — and there were also some stranger theories involving “Planet X,” a purported planet that NASA says doesn’t exist but that some people believe could somehow destroy Earth.

Christian ministry Answers in Genesis, which previously dismissed the Sept. 23 hoopla, explained in a blog post last year the celestial happenings that have led to so much speculation about specific end times dates:

On [Sept. 23], the sun will be in the constellation Virgo (the virgin), along with the moon near Virgo’s feet. Additionally, Jupiter will be in Virgo, while the planets Venus, Mars, and Mercury will be above and to the right of Virgo in the constellation Leo. Some people claim that this is a very rare event (allegedly only once in 7,000 years) and that it supposedly is a fulfillment of a sign in Revelation 12.

And since Revelation 12 discusses a “woman clothed with the sun, with the moon under her feet and a crown of twelve stars on her head,” a connection was made between what is described in Revelation and what was slated to happen in the skies.

And on April 23, since the sun, moon and Jupiter will be in Virgo, there’s once again speculation that something biblical could be afoot. On what basis, you ask? Beats me. History shows again and again that these predictions are always wrong.

Don’t get me wrong: As a Christian and a journalist who has spent a fair bit of time writing on the end times, I fully agree with Pastor Greg Laurie who recently told me, “We need to be students of Bible prophecy. I believe if we understand it correctly, it will just motivate us to live godly lives and do all that we can to reach our generation while we can.”

With that said, we also need to take seriously — as Laurie would argue — the scripture in its entirety, including those pesky verses in Mark and Matthew that tell us not to date-set. And sure, Jesus tells us in Luke that “there will be signs in the sun, moon and stars,” but he’s not specific and Christians seizing on various celestial happenings or events to definitively speak what they believe to be the heart and mind of God is unhelpful; in fact, as we’ve seen, it can be damaging.

My guess is that April 23 will be a day like any other. I wouldn’t worry; I wouldn’t panic. The best line of defense for those who believe the Bible is to be ready and waiting by following Jesus, living our lives right and sticking to our faith.

Obsessing over the end times isn’t healthy, but being aware of the ins and outs of what the Bible says is certainly both beneficial and warranted, which is why I wrote “The Armageddon Code” — a book that gives you a solid overview of the never-ending debate over Bible prophecy.

It’s not crazy to look at world events and ponder whether the signs mentioned in the Bible are, in some form, coming to fruition; but it is bizarre and dangerous to start setting dates in violation of the very scripture you claim to hold dear.If there's one thing we learned from the past week's marathon congressional inquisition of Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, it's this: The inner workings of Facebook's data-harvesting behemoth are so byzantine, that in some ways Mr. Zuckerberg is just as confused as the rest of us about how it all works.

Continue Reading Below

In his testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook doesn't store a history of websites its users have visited.

Mr. Zuckerberg later corrected himself, saying Facebook does in fact store a list of visited websites that include Facebook's tracking code. He added that the list is held temporarily before being converted into "a set of ad interests."

When testifying before the Senate Tuesday, Mr. Zuckerberg said, "I think everyone should have control over how their information is used." He also said, "You have full access to understand all -- every piece of information that Facebook might know about you -- and you can get rid of all of it."

Not exactly. There are important classes of information Facebook collects on us that we can't control. We don't get to "opt in" or remove every specific piece. Often, we aren't even informed of their existence -- except in the abstract -- and we aren't shown how the social network uses this harvested information.

What else Facebook knows

Advertisement

The website log is a good example, in part because of its sheer mass. The browsing histories of hundreds of millions -- possibly billions -- of people are gathered by a variety of advertising trackers, which Facebook has been offering to web publishers ever since it introduced the "Like" button in 2009. They've become, as predicted, a nearly web-wide system for tracking all users -- even when you don't click the button.

When you request and download your data from Facebook -- a feature Mr. Zuckerberg repeatedly referred to in answers to questions about control -- this stored browsing history isn't there.

That is reasonable, says Antonio Garcia-Martinez, a former Facebook ad-targeting product manager and current Facebook gadfly. Facebook targets ads based on an abstraction derived from your browsing history -- -- an abstraction such as your interest in golf. When you download your data, Facebook tells you what it thinks your interests are but doesn't provide the specific evidence for why it thinks that.

"If you downloaded this file [of sites Facebook knows you visited], it would look like a quarter to half your browsing history," Mr. Garcia-Martinez adds.

Another reason Facebook doesn't give you this data: The company claims recovering it from its databases is difficult. In one case, it took Facebook 106 days to deliver to a Belgian mathematician, Paul-Olivier Dehaye, all the data the company had gathered on him through its most common tracking system. Facebook doesn't say how long it stores this information.

When you opt out of interest-based ads, the system that uses your browsing history to target you, Facebook continues tracking you anyway. It just no longer uses the data to show you ads.

There is more data Facebook collects that it doesn't explain. It encourages users to upload their phone contacts, including names, phone numbers and email addresses. Facebook never discloses if such personal information about you has been uploaded by other users from their contact lists, how many times that might have happened or who might have uploaded it.

This data enables Facebook not only to keep track of active users across its multiple products, but also to fill in the missing links. If three people named Smith all upload contact info for the same fourth Smith, chances are this person is related. Facebook now knows that person exists, even if he or she has never been on Facebook. And of course, people without Facebook accounts certainly can't see what information the company has in these so-called shadow profiles.

"In general, we collect data on people who have not signed up for Facebook for security purposes," Mr. Zuckerberg told Congress Wednesday.

There's also a form of location data you can't control unless you delete your whole account. This isn't the app's easy-to-turn-off GPS tracking. It's the string of IP addresses, a form of device identification on the internet, that can show where your computer or phone is each time it connects to Facebook.

Location is a powerful signal for Facebook, allowing it to infer how you are connected to other people, even if you don't identify them as family members, co-workers or lovers. Facebook says it uses your IP address to target ads when you are near a specific place, but as you can see in your downloaded Facebook data, the log of stored IP addresses can go back years.

The new normal?

All this data, plus the elements Facebook lets you control, can potentially reveal everything from your wealth to whether you are depressed.

Facebook, Alphabet Inc.'s Google and a host of smaller companies that compete with and support the giants in the digital ad space have become addicted to the kind of information that helps microtarget ads.

That level of precision is at the heart of Facebook's recent troubles: Just because Facebook uses it to accomplish a seemingly innocent task -- in Mr. Zuckerberg's words, making ad "experiences better, and more relevant" -- doesn't mean we shouldn't be worried.

Two bills were proposed in the Senate the day after Mr. Zuckerberg's testimony, one of them bipartisan. Both would create new penalties for data breaches and would require Facebook and the rest of the ad-tracking industry to be more transparent and allow people to opt out easily. Facebook has withdrawn its opposition to the California Consumer Privacy Act, a November ballot measure that includes many of the same provisions. As of May 25, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation will force all advertisers to proactively ask for permission to capture or use any personal data.

Regulators the world over are coming to similar conclusions: Our personal data has become too sensitive -- and too lucrative -- to be left without restraints in the hands of self-interested corporations.A recent study found bathroom hand dryers are pretty gross.

A study by the scientists at the University of Connecticut found hand dryers in men's and women’s bathrooms blew bacteria onto hands including fecal matter.

The study, published in the Applied and Environmental Microbiology Journal, stated scientists came to the conclusion after they placed data-gathering plates under hand dryers at 36 bathrooms on the University of Connecticut’s campus.

The researchers said they placed the plates under the dryers for about 30 seconds and found “between 18 and 60 different colonies of bacteria on each plate.”

TODDLER WHO BEAT CANCER TWICE HEADS HOME AFTER 8-MONTH HOSPITAL STAY

"These results indicate that many kinds of bacteria, including potential pathogens and spores, can be deposited on hands exposed to bathroom hand dryers and that spores could be dispersed throughout buildings and deposited on hands by hand dryers," the study said.

The scientists wrote it was not immediately clear what “organisms” are “dispersed by hand dryers” and if “hand dryers provide a reservoir of bacteria or simply blow large amounts of bacterially contaminated air, and whether bacterial spores are deposited on surfaces by hand dryers."

The researchers noted the hand dryers did not have the HEPA [high-efficiency particulate air] filters that come in most Dyson models. Researchers said the HEPA filters helped decrease but not eliminate the bacteria.

TOO MUCH SITTING MAY SHRINK PART OF BRAIN TIED TO MEMORY



The study said it was possible hand dryers are “responsible for spreading pathogenic bacteria, including bacterial spores” through an entire building as well. Researchers also noted Bacillus subtilis PS533 was discovered in every bathroom they tested.

Peter Setlow, one of the study’s lead authors, told Newsweek the bacteria will not potentially affect human health but it shows how easy the bacteria spread. He said the bathrooms they tested now offer paper towels.Colorado police have arrested a 31-year-old woman who was found tied up in a small trash dumpster, according to a report.

Linnea Hayda, 31, of Vail, was booked Thursday on charges of false reporting, tampering with evidence and attempting to influence a public servant in connection with the March 27 incident, Vail Daily reported. She was freed on $7,500 bond.

Police said Hayda was conscious and breathing but unable to talk when they found her in the dumpster.

Her wrists and ankles were bound with zip ties, they said.

Detectives took her to the hospital and interviewed her there.

CLEMSON STUDENT WHO SAYS SHE WAS RAPED AT FRATERNITY HOUSE CHARGED WITH FILING FALSE REPORT

The next day she told a Vail Daily reporter that she wound up in the dumpster after being abducted the previous day by a person who threw her in a vehicle and told her she would not see her children again.

She also said that she was due in court later that week for a child custody hearing and that said she did not remember anything until she was found, the paper reported.

Vail police said they spent more than 200 hours investigating Hayda’s allegations before determining they were “fictitious,” the paper reported.

“People have been on edge, thinking that someone is harming people and dropping them in trash dumpsters,” prosecutor Heidi McCollum said.There’s both good and bad news for national park visitors this summer.

After fierce public outcry, the agency is indeed hiking daily entrance fees at some of America's most popular parks by $5 to $35 a vehicle. The new plan replaces a proposal that would have charged $70 for cars to enter perennial hotspots like the Grand Canyon, Yellowstone, Yosemite and Zion, the release details.

“An investment in our parks is an investment in America. Every dollar spent to rebuild our parks will help bolster the gateway communities that rely on park visitation for economic vitality,” Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke said in a statement. “I want to thank the American people who made their voices heard through the public comment process on the original fee proposal. Your input has helped us develop a balanced plan that focuses on modest increases at the 117 fee-charging parks as opposed to larger increases proposed for 17 highly-visited national parks."

FISHERMAN GIVES C-SECTION TO DEAD SHARK, FREES 98 PUPS INTO THE OCEAN

“The $11.6 billion maintenance backlog isn’t going to be solved overnight and will require a multi-tiered approach as we work to provide badly needed revenue to repair infrastructure. This is just one of the ways we are carrying out our commitment to ensure that national parks remain world class destinations that provide an excellent value for families from all income levels,” he added.

As the new changes go into effect June 1, more than two-thirds of national parks will remain free to enter, Reuters reports.

“Federal law requires that 80 percent of revenue generated at a national park remains where it is collected. The remaining funds can be funneled to other projects within the system,” the outlet specifies. The modest price hike aims to generate revenue to address $11.6 billion in deferred maintenance projects through the National Park system of 417 parks, historic and cultural sites, and monuments.

SEVEN-YEAR-OLD GIRL HIKES MOUNT KILIMANJARO IN HONOR OF LATE DAD, BREAKS RECORD

The updated fee plan is "a big win for park-lovers everywhere," Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, told ABC News. "This is a prime example that activism works.”

In October 2017, the National Park Service announced it was considering hiking fees to address the maintenance backlog and opened up a month-long period for public comment. After receiving more than 109,000 comments from people opposing the plan, they rolled out the new strategy to keep the parks more financially accessible.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSPresident Donald Trump has reportedly lent his support to a U.S. senator from Colorado, promising to back legislation that “protects states’ rights” on legalized marijuana.

The president's decision would represent a split from U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who in January rescinded an Obama-era policy, known as "the Cole memo," that gave states more leeway over the federal government on marijuana policy.

The name refers to former Deputy Attorney General James Cole, whose memo explained the policy.

In a statement Friday, U.S. Sen. Cory Gardner, a Republican, said he’d received an assurance from the president on the states' rights' issue earlier this week.

“Since the campaign, President Trump has consistently supported states’ rights to decide for themselves how best to approach marijuana,” Gardner said. “Late Wednesday, I received a commitment from the President that the Department of Justice’s rescission of the Cole memo will not impact Colorado’s legal marijuana industry.

“Furthermore," Gardner added, "President Trump has assured me that he will support a federalism-based legislative solution to fix this states’ rights issue once and for all.”

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders confirmed Gardner's account of the president's thinking -- but Sessions' reaction was not immediately known. According to The Los Angeles Times, Trump did not inform Sessions in advance of the change in policy.

Trump and Sessions have had moments of friction in their relationship for months, on issues unrelated to the legality of marijuana. For instance, Sessions, an early supporter of candidate Trump, has been sharply criticized by the president in recent months over his decision to recuse himself from an investigation into alleged Moscow meddling in the 2016 presidential election.

As for marijuana itself, during the presidential race Trump said states should be able to decide their own pot policies. "I'm a states person, it should be up to the states, absolutely," he told a television interviewer in Colorado that year.

However, a year earlier at CPAC (Conservative Political Action Conference) in Maryland, Trump had said he supported medical marijuana but called recreational pot "bad."

He singled out Colorado, the first state to allow recreational marijuana sales. "They've got a lot of problems going on right now in Colorado - some big problems," Trump said then.

When Trump selected Sessions, a former federal prosecutor and U.S. senator from Alabama, as his attorney general, marijuana supporters girded for a crackdown. But Gardner said Sessions had promised him he'd do nothing to interfere with Colorado's robust marijuana market.

Gardner said he was blindsided when Sessions made his announcement in January regarding pot prosecutions.

In retaliation, Gardner used his power as a senator to prevent consideration of any nominees for the Department of Justice — an extraordinary step for a senator against an administration run by another member of his own political party.

As recently as earlier this month, marijuana legalization advocates and industry leaders were continuing to brace for an administration crackdown and for fresh tensions with the Trump administration – even coaching those in the business how to handle federal raids – as top officials were anticipating “greater enforcement” on the horizon.

“It’s definitely an interesting time. We are nervous,” said Beth Collins, senior director of government relations with Americans for Safe Access (ASA).

Gardner and Justice officials have been in discussions for months to get the holds lifted. Gardner has met with Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, the official overseeing the Russia probe who has been the target of Trump's ire.

In his Friday statement, Gardner said he had released some holds, but left others in place until he acquired “a full commitment that the guidelines of the Cole Memo would be respected.”

Meanwhile, legislation to protect states where marijuana is legal is still being drafted. Trump's backing is seen as key to getting a bill through Congress.

Fox News' Adam Shaw and Jake Gibson and the Associated Press contributed to this report.Now that’s a good dog.

On April 12, Burger King’s U.K. branch released a video to YouTube of a guide dog being successfully trained to smell out flame-grilled Whoppers for his visually impaired owner.

British hockey player Nathan Tree describes his golden retriever Flynn as his "best friend" who “saves my life every day.” Traveling often for his career on the ice, Tree was inspired to teach his pup to sniff out Burger King Whoppers, his “go-to food.”

'BOXED BEER' COULD BE THE NEW DRINKING TREND

“When you travel, it's hard to find something to eat. I didn’t really know if it was possible, I just thought it was a cool idea,” he jokes in the nearly three minute clip. “Whopper dog!”

Fortunately for the sweet pair, dog trainers in the video say that it’s “incredibly easy” to teach a dog to detect the scent of flame-grilled beef.

After fifteen days of training, Flynn is successfully able to identify a flame-grilled Whopper in a blind scent test with another burger and fish and chips, just in time for Tree’s trip to Paris.

TARANTULA BURGER SPECIAL SOLD AT NORTH CAROLINA RESTAURANT HAS LEGS

Trotting his owner through the City of Lights, Flynn successfully leads Tree to a Burger King, where he is praised as a “good boy” for his quick thinking.



While it’s not clear how much of the ad from Grabarz & Partner is stage, it is adorable to see the #WhopperDog achieve his goal.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSIt was a joy ride gone wrong.

Two Jet Airways commanders in India have been officially grounded by the carrier for allowing an unauthorized "lady friend" to sit in the cockpit for the duration of the trip from Goa to Mumbai.

The pilots are now in even bigger trouble, as they ignored a temporary month-long license suspension from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and illicitly agreed to fly again for Jet Airways, the Times of India reported on April 14. Both went through simulator training, and one pilot even operated a flight during their initial grounding period.

ARIZONA RESIDENTS WILL SOON NEED 'TRAVEL ID' TO BOARD PLANES

For their part, Jet Airways has blamed an organizational oversight as the root of the escalating trouble in what the Times has dubbed “the lady-in-cockpit episode.”

“An administrative oversight led to a Jet Airways pilot, currently off flying duties, being assigned a training flight after completing a ground training session,” an airline spokesman told the outlet. “The company has proactively reported the event to the DGCA and has already fixed the gap in the assignment process, to prevent its reoccurrence, following an internal investigation.”

GUEST GOES OVERBOARD ON P&O CRUISE: IT WAS 'WORST THING I’VE SEEN ON A CRUISE,' SAYS PASSENGER

DGCA official Lalit Gupta told Jet Airways that the pilot’s actions aboard flight 9W 762 on January 8 “compromised with the safety of aircraft operations and its occupants,” a disgrace to the “privilege of their pilots licenses.”

As of press time, the status of the pilot's employment with Jet Airways is not immediately clear, as the carrier did not immediately return Fox News’ request for comment.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSThe winner of a $533 million lottery jackpot wasn't sure he could believe his eyes. So, when his mother called to say someone in his new home state had won it, his response was: It wasn't me.

Forty-seven-year-old Richard Wahl, of Vernon, New Jersey, was introduced Friday during a news conference at lottery headquarters after winning the half-billion March Mega Millions drawing, the largest single jackpot in state history.

Wahl, a production manager at a food services company in the northern part of the state, said he plans to retire and take the cash payout over the annuity, totaling $220.7 million after taxes.

He described finding out he had the winning ticket late at night:

"It was truly amazing. Some of my family members were sleeping so I didn't go and scream out. I walked upstairs. I saw my wife ... and said, 'Baby, we get to go on vacation.' She said, 'What are you talking about? Don't be an idiot.'"

BABY’S BODY FOUND IN SUITCASE NEAR TRAIN TRACKS IN NEW JERSEY; POLICE SEEK ID

He said he checked the numbers 15 times, kept the ticket in a fireproof safe and wanted to be sure the win was for real before he told other family members.

"Actually the weird thing is my mom actually called me before I wanted to tell her and told me 'I heard somebody in New Jersey won the lottery, was it you?'" Wahl said. "And I wasn't ready to share with her yet, so I told her, 'Absolutely not, mother.'"

He bought the winning ticket at a Lukoil gas station in northern New Jersey and said the numbers were machine picked.

"That's why we believe it's God's plan," he said.

He said he went back to the Lukoil to fuel up after he won but before he came forward. It happened to be the same day the state lottery was presenting a $30,000 check to the station for having sold the winning ticket.

He said he saw all the cameras and decided to walk out, worried that he might be recognized since he wasn't ready to come forward yet.

NEW JERSEY MAN KILLS DOG, LIES ABOUT ABUSING PET TO RAISE THOUSANDS IN DONATIONS, POLICE SAY

Wahl moved to New Jersey from Michigan in July for work and says one of his dreams is to restore a 1963 Corvette.

He described his family as humble and said they wanted to help people.

"For us the plan is to do a lot of good things with it," Wahl said. "It's not only life changing money for me, but I want it to be life changing money for family, friends, people in need."

He said he's not regular lottery player, but decided to play after talking to a coworker about how they'd retire if they won.

He declined to talk about his family or go into details about where they might go or if they'd move. He said his wife was from Mexico.

The lump-sum option totaled $324.6 million, but after 24 percent in federal taxes and 8 percent for the state, Wahl is taking $220.7 million home, according to acting lottery executive director John White.

Mega Millions is played in 44 states plus Washington, D.C., and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Wahl's win was the fourth biggest in the game's history.Czech filmmaker Milos Forman, whose American movies "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Amadeus" won a deluge of Academy Awards, including best director Oscars, died Saturday. He was 86.

Forman died about 2 a.m. Saturday at Danbury Hospital, near his home in Warren, Conn., according to a statement released by the former director's agent, Dennis Aspland. Aspland said Forman's wife, Martina, notified him of the death.

When he arrived in Hollywood in the late 1960s, Forman was lacking in both money and English skills, but carrying a portfolio of Czechoslavkian films much admired internationally for their quirky, lighthearted spirit. Among them were "Black Peter," ''Loves of a Blonde" and "The Fireman's Ball."

The orphan of Nazi Holocaust victims, Forman had abandoned his homeland after communist troops invaded in 1968 and crushed a brief period of political and artistic freedom known as the Prague Spring.

In America, his record as a Czech filmmaker was enough to gain him entree to Hollywood's studios, but his early suggestions for film projects were quickly rejected. Among them were an adaptation of Franz Kafka's nove "Amerika" and a comedy starring entertainer Jimmy Durante as a wealthy bear hunter in Czechoslovakia.

KHLOE KARDASHIAN FANS SPOT GABRIELLE UNION IN TRISTAN THOMPSON ‘CHEATING’ PHOTO, PROMPTING EXPLANATION



After his first U.S. film, 1969's "Taking Off," flopped, Forman didn't get a chance to direct a major feature again for five years. He occupied himself during part of that time by covering the decathlon at the 1972 Olympics for the documentary "Visions of Eight."

"Taking Off," an amusing look at generational differences in a changing America, had won praise from critics who compared it favorably to Forman's Czech films. But without any big-name stars it quickly tanked at the box office.

Actor Michael Douglas gave Forman a second chance, hiring him to direct "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest," which Douglas was co-producing.

The film, based on Ken Kesey's novel about a misfit who leads the inmates of a mental institution in a revolt against authority, captured every major Oscar at that year's Academy Awards, the first film to do so since 1934"s "It Happened One Night."

The winners included Jack Nicholson as lead actor, Louise Fletcher as lead actress, screenwriters Bo Goldman and Lawrence Hauben, Forman as director and the film itself for best picture.

The director, who worked meticulously, spending months with screenwriters and overseeing every aspect of production, didn't release another film until 1979's "Hair."

The musical, about rebellious 1960s-era American youth, appealed to a director who had witnessed his own share of youthful rebellion against communist repression in Czechoslovakia. But by the time it came out, America's brief period of student revolt had long since faded, and the public wasn't interested.

"Ragtime" followed in 1981. The adaptation of E.L. Doctorow's novel, notable for Forman's ability to persuade his aging Connecticut neighbor Jimmy Cagney to end 20 years of retirement and play the corrupt police commissioner, also was a disappointment.

JENNA DEWAN BREAKS SILENCE AFTER CHANNING TATUM SPLIT

Forman returned to top form three years later, however, when he released "Amadeus."

Based on Peter Shaffer's play, it portrayed 18th century musical genius Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart as a foul-mouthed man-child, with lesser composer Salieri as his shadowy nemesis. It captured seven Academy Awards, including best picture, best director and best actor (for F. Murray Abraham as Salieri).

Hunting for locations, Forman realized Prague was the only European capital that had changed little since Mozart's time, but returning there initially filled him with dread.

His parents had died in a Nazi concentration camp when he was 9. He had been in Paris when the communists crushed the Prague Spring movement in 1968, and he hadn't bothered to return home, becoming a U.S. citizen in 1975.

The Czech government, realizing the money to be made by letting "Amadeus" be filmed in Prague, allowed Forman to come home, and the public hailed his return.

"There was an enormous affection for us doing the film," he remarked in 2002. "The people considered it a victory for me that the authorities had to bow to the almighty dollar and let the traitor back."

Never prolific, Forman's output slowed even more after "Amadeus," and his three subsequent films were disappointments.

"Valmont" (1989) reached audiences a year after "Dangerous Liaisons," both based on the same French novel.

"The People vs. Larry Flint" (1996) was an ill-advised attempt to paint the Hustler magazine publisher as a free speech advocate.

"Man on the Moon," based on the life of cult hero Andy Kaufman, did win its star, Jim Carrey, a Golden Globe. But it also failed to fully convey Kaufman's pioneering style of offbeat comedy or the reasons for his disdaining success at every turn.

Jan Tomas Forman, born in Caslav, Czechoslovakia, was raised by relatives after his parents' deaths and attended arts school in Prague.

The director's first marriage, to actress Jana Brejchova ended in divorce. He left his second wife, singer Vera Kresadlova, behind with the couple's two children when he left Czechoslovakia. He married Martina Zborilova in 1999.

Czech filmmaker Milos Forman, whose American movies "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and "Amadeus" won a deluge of Academy Awards, including best director Oscars, died Saturday. He was 86.

Forman died about 2 a.m. Saturday at Danbury Hospital, near his home in Warren, Conn., according to a statement released by the former director's agent, Dennis Aspland. Aspland said Forman's wife, Martina, notified him of the death.

When he arrived in Hollywood in the late 1960s, Forman was lacking in both money and English skills, but carrying a portfolio of Czechoslavkian films much admired internationally for their quirky, lighthearted spirit. Among them were "Black Peter," ''Loves of a Blonde" and "The Fireman's Ball."

The orphan of Nazi Holocaust victims, Forman had abandoned his homeland after communist troops invaded in 1968 and crushed a brief period of political and artistic freedom known as the Prague Spring.

In America, his record as a Czech filmmaker was enough to gain him entree to Hollywood's studios, but his early suggestions for film projects were quickly rejected. Among them were an adaptation of Franz Kafka's novel "Amerika" and a comedy starring entertainer Jimmy Durante as a wealthy bear hunter in Czechoslovakia.

After his first U.S. film, 1969's "Taking Off," flopped, Forman didn't get a chance to direct a major feature again for five years. He occupied himself during part of that time by covering the decathlon at the 1972 Olympics for the documentary "Visions of Eight."

"Taking Off," an amusing look at generational differences in a changing America, had won praise from critics who compared it favorably to Forman's Czech films. But without any big-name stars it quickly tanked at the box office.

Actor Michael Douglas gave Forman a second chance, hiring him to direct "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest," which Douglas was co-producing.

The film, based on Ken Kesey's novel about a misfit who leads the inmates of a mental institution in a revolt against authority, captured every major Oscar at that year's Academy Awards, the first film to do so since 1934"s "It Happened One Night."

The winners included Jack Nicholson as lead actor, Louise Fletcher as lead actress, screenwriters Bo Goldman and Lawrence Hauben, Forman as director and the film itself for best picture.

The director, who worked meticulously, spending months with screenwriters and overseeing every aspect of production, didn't release another film until 1979's "Hair."

The musical, about rebellious 1960s-era American youth, appealed to a director who had witnessed his own share of youthful rebellion against communist repression in Czechoslovakia. But by the time it came out, America's brief period of student revolt had long since faded, and the public wasn't interested.

"Ragtime" followed in 1981. The adaptation of E.L. Doctorow's novel, notable for Forman's ability to persuade his aging Connecticut neighbor Jimmy Cagney to end 20 years of retirement and play the corrupt police commissioner, also was a disappointment.

Forman returned to top form three years later, however, when he released "Amadeus."

Based on Peter Shaffer's play, it portrayed 18th century musical genius Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart as a foul-mouthed man-child, with lesser composer Salieri as his shadowy nemesis. It captured seven Academy Awards, including best picture, best director and best actor (for F. Murray Abraham as Salieri).

Hunting for locations, Forman realized Prague was the only European capital that had changed little since Mozart's time, but returning there initially filled him with dread.

His parents had died in a Nazi concentration camp when he was 9. He had been in Paris when the communists crushed the Prague Spring movement in 1968, and he hadn't bothered to return home, becoming a U.S. citizen in 1975.

The Czech government, realizing the money to be made by letting "Amadeus" be filmed in Prague, allowed Forman to come home, and the public hailed his return.

"There was an enormous affection for us doing the film," he remarked in 2002. "The people considered it a victory for me that the authorities had to bow to the almighty dollar and let the traitor back."

Never prolific, Forman's output slowed even more after "Amadeus," and his three subsequent films were disappointments.

"Valmont" (1989) reached audiences a year after "Dangerous Liaisons," both based on the same French novel.

"The People vs. Larry Flint" (1996) was an ill-advised attempt to paint the Hustler magazine publisher as a free speech advocate.

"Man on the Moon," based on the life of cult hero Andy Kaufman, did win its star, Jim Carrey, a Golden Globe. But it also failed to fully convey Kaufman's pioneering style of offbeat comedy or the reasons for his disdaining success at every turn.

Jan Tomas Forman, born in Caslav, Czechoslovakia, was raised by relatives after his parents' deaths and attended arts school in Prague.

The director's first marriage, to actress Jana Brejchova ended in divorce. He left his second wife, singer Vera Kresadlova, behind with the couple's two children when he left Czechoslovakia. He married Martina Zborilova in 1999.Britney Spears and boyfriend Sam Asghari get intimate and show off their dance moves in a sexy new video.

On Friday, the singer shared a video of her and her boyfriend engaging in what appeared to be a post-workout dance routine. Spears donned a white sports bra and booty shorts while her man went shirtless, showing off his toned abs.

In the video, the personal trainer picked up his girlfriend and twirled her around before ending the short dance routine with a kiss. In the caption for the loving video, Spears said, "Some days you just got to dance! @samasghari."

But the couple's steamy video isn't the first time they have shown off their affection on social media.

At the beginning of the month, Asghari took to Instagram to share his love for his girlfriend by sharing a professional picture of Spears with the caption, “Not going to wait until tomorrow to express my love for the one that humbles me, women crush (not only on Wednesday’s) but every day."

Asghari ended the caption with the hashtag, #shehumblesme.

Spears met the personal trainer and model back in 2016 on the set of her "Slumber Party" music video, but the couple kept quiet about their budding relationship in the beginning.

After Asghari posted a photo of himself with Spears at a restaurant but quickly deleted it that November, a month later, a source revealed to People that the couple was in the process of "getting to know each other."

At the end of that year, Spears and Asghari rang in 2017 at Catch LA and confirmed romance rumors after the pop star posted an image of the two dining at the trendy restaurant for the holiday.

Happy New Year 🎉🎉🎉 A post shared by Britney Spears (@britneyspears) on Jan 1, 2017 at 11:17am PST

But while the couple's romance continues to bloom, Spears revisits issues with her ex-husband, Kevin Federline. Currently, the star is reportedly in the middle of a court battle with her ex.

According to Us Weekly, the former backup dancer has requested $20,000 more a month in child support “to recognize the sacrifices he’s made,” a source told the mag.

But Spears, whose Las Vegas "Pieces of Me" show residency brought in more than $137 million, is reportedly annoyed with her ex-husband's request.

“She’s angry Kevin is asking for more money because she pays for everything,” said the source. "Those boys are her world. She is an amazing mother.”Bertucci’s, an Italian-restaurant chain with locations across the East Coast, is preparing to file for bankruptcy, according to Bloomberg.

The Massachusetts-based company, which is best known for its brick-oven pizza, is reportedly lining up a buyer who would take control of the business after the filing. Company officials could not be reached for comment.

Continue Reading Below

Bertucci’s financial woes are reflective of a broader trend for sit-down restaurant chains, which are struggling to maintain a steady clientele.

In February, Dine Brands Global announced it was closing up to 120 additional restaurants in 2018, after shuttering more than 100 Applebee’s and IHOP locations the previous year. The company reported a net loss of $324 million in fiscal 2017, compared to $96.6 million in 2016.

And Bloomin’ Brands, which owns Bonefish Grill, Carrabba’s and Outback restaurants, closed 43 of its 1,500 restaurants last year, citing declining sales numbers.When you witness another couple give each other an extended, passionate kiss, you don’t forget it — especially if they’re a married couple. I certainly haven’t forgotten one particular time I got an eyeful on a sweltering afternoon in Mississippi.

My friend Shon and I had been clearing land for several hours when we finally decided to head back to his house. We were filthy, drenched in sweat and dehydrated.

After I walked through the door, I went straight to the kitchen sink, turned on the water, bent over and started guzzling from the tap. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw that Shon was doing something very different.

His wife, Beth, walked right up to him, put her hands on his face and began kissing him. I didn’t want to interrupt the love-fest so I decided to pretend to keep drinking and wait out the kiss.

So I waited.

And waited.

And waited—until the two finally unlocked lips.

I turned around and they stood there next to each other like nothing had happened. But something had happened: Like many times before, I had witnessed Shon and Beth’s love and decided that one day, I was going to have a marriage like that. But I wasn’t just thinking of the physical attraction they obviously had for each other. I wanted the kind of friendship they had.

They got each other’s sense of humor. They held each other together in the midst of parenting the most strong-willed toddler in world history. They prayed together and encouraged each other. They were basically best friends — that’s what I wanted but it wasn’t quite what I got.

Quite frankly, when I got married, I was disappointed with the friendship between my wife, Raquel, and me. I had only known her for nine months when we said “I do,” and despite a rocky engagement, I kept telling myself that wedding planning was the reason we were having so much conflict. The wedding ceremony was going to fix everything. It did not.

Raquel and I found ourselves bickering over the most ridiculous things, nitpicking at each other and always trying to get the last word in. Yes, we were married, we were physically attracted to each other and we were going to stick it out. We were not, however, best friends in the way I had hoped. It stressed me out and left me wondering what was wrong with us.

If I could go back and give myself some advice, here’s what I’d say: Don’t worry about it, man. You don’t have to be best friends with your wife — you’ve already got something far more profound than that.

Being “best friends” is all about chemistry, having lots of things in common and enjoying being together. That’s not always natural for married folks. How could it be?

You’re paying bills together, raising children together, buying property, doing chores, negotiating the little details of everyday life. You’re not always going to feel like best friends in the middle of all of that, so let go of the idea that you even need to be best friends. Instead, aim to be each other’s closest friend.

Here’s what I mean by that: You two are already physically close to each other every day — you’re sharing food, sharing a bathroom, sleeping in the same bed and, well, not just sleeping in that bed. You can’t get away from each other.

It’s in that place of inescapable proximity that you two are figuring out how hard it can be to live with someone so different than you are. You’re getting to know each other in a way that nobody else does. You’re seeing each other’s worst and trying to find the best anyway. That’s no ordinary friendship.

When you’re in a relationship like that, you’ve found your closest friend, body and soul. It’s a friendship that says “I do,” and keeps saying it every day. It’s a friendship based on unconditional love, the kind of love Jesus gives you every day.

Keep being that friend to your wife, no matter how you feel. If you two can keep trying to do that — in spite of all your weaknesses — you’ll have the truest, deepest, best kind of friendship anyone could ask for.Will House Speaker Paul Ryan’s retirement increase the odds of President Trump’s impeachment? Maybe, but Democratic leaders don’t want to talk about it.

President Obama’s former Attorney General Eric Holder and former top Obama campaign strategist David Axelrod, among others, want their liberal allies to shut up about impeaching President Trump. They fear that threats to drive the president from office will boost voter turnout – not among Democrats, as some on the left hope, but rather among Republicans.

Axelrod tweeted recently: “Dems should NOT commit to impeachment unless & until there’s a demonstrable case for one…. If we “normalize” impeachment as a political tool, it will be another hammer blow to our democracy.”

Holder tweeted in response: “Ax is exactly right. Midterms can be, among other things, a referendum on this Administration, its policies and its supporters - at federal and state levels. Midterms should not be centered around questions of impeachment.”

Trump supporters consider the president under siege. They are livid that Democrats have blocked his agenda – and indeed the functioning of the government – through their brick wall of “resistance.”

Why this high-minded stance? Because the savvy politicos see Republicans beginning to score with that potent “political tool.”

GOP fundraising outfits are busily alerting voters that if Democrats take over the House, they will vote to remove the president from office. They warn of a “coup” by the extreme left against the “duly elected president.”

The House can vote to impeach by a simple majority, but it would require a two-thirds vote in the Senate after a trial to actually send the president packing.

Not only do Republican organizers hope alarming anti-impeachment messages will pump up fundraising; they also expect the messages will boost voter turnout.

These Republicans are almost certainly correct. Trump supporters consider the president under siege. They are livid that Democrats have blocked his agenda – and indeed the functioning of the government – through their brick wall of “resistance.”

Trump supporters also think the media are grossly unfair. Eighty percent of Republicans think journalists make up stories about the president, according to Quinnipiac. They are also increasingly skeptical of the investigation into alleged collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign.

A Quinnipiac poll shows only 52 percent of the country thinks Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe is fair – the lowest level of support since the organization began tracking the topic last November. Some 54 percent of Republicans think the inquiry is “unfair.”

Rasmussen reports a similar trend: 40 percent of likely voters see Mueller’s investigation as a “partisan witch hunt,” up from 34 percent last October.

Quinnipiac also reports that President Trump’s approval rating is at its highest level in a year, despite breathless reporting about Stormy Daniels. A solid 73 percent of voters say the alleged one-night stand with the porn star is unimportant.

In short, Democrats may be underestimating President Trump’s continued support within his own party, and the growing sense of injustice among Republicans. Any whiff of impeachment will send the president’s furious backers charging to the voting booth, if not to the barricades.

This is important because midterm elections are decided by who shows up. Historically, off-year election participation is nearly always lower than during the presidential cycle. The amount of the drop-off is critical.

According to the Pew Research Center, “the GOP’s victory in the national popular vote in 2010 – and their gain of 63 seats in the House – was ultimately fueled by a sharp rise in turnout by the Republican base, particularly among conservatives and older voters.”

Not since 1938, when Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Democrats suffered a crushing 71-seat loss, has any president suffered such a “shellacking,” as President Obama himself called it.

Democrats hope to turn the tables in November. Instead of Tea Party activists driving turnout, progressives expect the anti-Trump fever that has sparked so many demonstrations over the past year to translate into a blue wave in November. They think the promise to impeach the president will add fuel to the left’s fire.

Democratic Party leaders like Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California have urged caution, with the latter telling CNN: "It's not someplace that I think we should go.”

Rep. Adam Schiff of California, ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, recently said: “I’ve been urging members to refrain from discussing impeachment; I think we should let these investigations conclude and see what evidence is found.”

Nonetheless, many on the left are charging ahead, encouraged in part by super donor Tom Steyer, who has earmarked $20 million for candidates who climb aboard his “Need to Impeach” campaign.

That may be why someone like Rep. Beto O’Rourke of Texas – the liberal darling running to unseat Texas Republican Sen. Ted Cruz in November – recently told a radio interviewer that he would vote to impeach the president.

Though in December O’Rourke declined to back such a measure brought to the floor by fellow Texan Al Green, O’Rourke has seen the light, now telling listeners that he thinks President Trump is guilty of attempting to collude “with a foreign government in our national election … (and to) obstruct justice in the investigation of what happened in the 2016 election.”

The New York Times suggested in a recent piece that impeachment talk is the stuff of fevered right-wing imaginations and a useful strategy as Republicans try to “stave off a Democratic wave.” The newspaper reported that what started as “blaring political hyperbole on the right” has now entered the GOP mainstream.

When the principal vocalist for impeachment was California Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters the threat seemed almost benign. But Steyer shocked many by gathering 4 million online signatures from activists last fall, creating what Politico described as an “avalanche of grass-roots support” for impeachment.

In addition, as the Times admits, Democrats have already held two impeachment votes in the House. In the most recent one, in January, 66 Democrats – over one third of the caucus – voted to initiate impeachment proceedings, up from 58 in a December headcount.

So, maybe not so fevered after all.My name is Abdalaziz Alhamza and I am a 26-year-old Syrian refugee from Raqqa, the former capital of the so-called ISIS caliphate. I want to personally say thank you for joining with France and Britain to launch air strikes against Syria following chemical weapons attacks on Syrian citizens. You let Syria’s President Bashar Assad know that red lines drawn by the U.S. are no joke.

I pray you will continue to hit Assad hard and put smiles on the faces of all the mothers who lost their children. Your strikes give hope to all the children who lost their parents.

Mr. Trump, I urge you to push the international community to support civil society organizations, build schools and hospitals. People will appreciate this more than anything else, and you will go down in the annals of history as the greatest champion of humanitarian action in a world where international governing bodies are willfully impotent and paralyzed.

Looking back to my childhood in Syria, I can recall being made to watch the news with my father all the time. I was a kid, so I just couldn't get what was so interesting about people talking for hours on end!

I want to personally say thank you for joining with France and Britain to launch air strikes against Syria following chemical weapons attacks on Syrian citizens. You let Syria’s President Bashar Assad know that red lines drawn by the U.S. are no joke.

We would often watch news reports from Afghanistan, and I distinctly remember the fateful day of September 11, 2001 when I heard the name “Al Qaeda” for the first time. I was 9-years-old. I understood nothing. But then, the Iraq War happened. I quickly became versed in the lingo because virtually every Syrian television was tuned into footage of the war in Iraq.

When I got older, I opted out of getting involved in politics. The main reason I stayed away relates to our neighbor who was arrested under suspicious circumstances. People on the street would make cryptic comments like, “he'll never see the light of day.” It frightened me and I didn't question that feeling.

Later, like many of my Syrian compatriots, I joined the protests in our iteration of the Arab Spring early on, demanding freedom. I’ll never forget my first demonstration. Though I was among the throngs for maybe only 40 seconds, to me, it felt like an eternity.

Despite my conviction to the cause, I was still absolutely terrified of what could happen if I was identified by anyone affiliated with the government. So after those 40 seconds, I ran. I ran for 15 minutes straight, hopped in a taxi for a good distance, loitered at a small café for about a half hour, and then took another taxi home.

From that moment onward, I started to research what was going on in my country and the world. I started questioning everything I thought I knew. I started to probe the far reaches of my imagination: How could we effect real change in the country with these protests?

But before long, the Assad regime started arresting, torturing, and killing protesters. I was personally arrested three times, so these were no empty anecdotes; joining the protests posed a real threat to my life.

I nonetheless found myself addicted to demonstrating. I felt a sense of obligation to those protesters who had been disappeared or killed. It was during this time that we insisted on dismantling the Assad regime; the number of the protesters grew and demonstrations were popping up nearly everywhere in the country. A revolution was born in Syria.

Day after day, we faced off Assad's armed forces with our peaceful demonstrations to prove that all their violence would be unable to kill the spirit of the Syrian Revolution. We responded to gunshots with cameras and told all the world our story. A new generation of activists, journalists, artists, and civil society organizations began to thrive.

At first, we were convinced the regime would eventually abandon this bloody campaign – how long could it possibly go on killing its own people? But we were eventually forced to recognize a horrible reality: we were dealing with a regime that had controlled the country with an iron fist for more than 40 years. This regime's brutality knew no limits, no humanity, no mercy.

At the end of 2011, the Assad regime strategically released from its prisons the extremists who had returned to Syria following the Iraq War. The regime knew full well that these people were not interested in building schools or planting community gardens. These people were released into the country by the Assad regime to sow seeds of chaos and terror among the peaceful people demanding freedom from his tyrannical regime.

In the midst of our peaceful protests, we didn’t ask for foreign intervention; the Assad regime brought Iran and Hezbollah to fight for it. In time, we could no longer stand by and watch our people being massacred, so only then did we call for help from the international community. We pleaded that outside powers stop Assad by finding a political solution.

We asked that Assad be held accountable for his actions in a court of law, but all we got from the international community were speeches rich with hot air, and promises that were never be kept. And then ISIS emerged.

Mr. Trump, Syria’s people have been killed in so many ways – some you can imagine and others you cannot. Assad has killed us with bullets, bombs, snipers, starvation, and various forms of horrific torture techniques I could personally attest to.

I remember in 2013, when Assad deployed a chemical weapon that killed an unfathomable amount of Syrians in a matter of minutes. I cried more at that horror than any other – seeing all those dead bodies – free from any blood stains and perfectly intact apart from the yellow hue that shrouded their faces frozen in terror. All they had done to ensure their own deaths was to breathe.

Yes, Mr. President, they dared to breathe after your predecessor declared that any use of chemical weapons constituted crossing a red line. We took this to heart; we thought that this atrocity would finally elicit meaningful action from the U.S. and the international community to finally eradicate this 21st century monster.

Unfortunately, Mr. President Trump, the red line turned out to be drawn in blood, and we collectively lost all trust in the U.S. and international community. The world's inaction taught Assad that no one would stop him, so he continued to use chemical weapons with impunity.

In 2015, Assad brought the Russians in to fight alongside his armed forces and this decision, by far, turned the military table in his favor. The relatively weak Assad army was now empowered to slaughter even more Syrians.

This so-called civil war was no longer a family affair – we were being killed by non-Syrian actors – countries and militias that had nothing to do with us. The Syrian conflict turned into a proxy war. Then, and only then, the U.S.-led international coalition decided to join the war by targeting ISIS, and leaving Assad to act as he pleased.

My friends and I founded “Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently” – the first organization to report from inside ISIS territories. We wanted to fight terror with truth, and because of this, everyone affiliated with the organization became targeted by ISIS for extermination.

But while it’s true that I suffered more at the hands of ISIS than any other group, I need to tell you something very important: Assad’s regime is far more brutal than ISIS.

Mr. President, some 95 percent of the Syrians who have been killed in Syria were killed by Assad; his warplanes, his missiles, his chemical weapons. Not ISIS. ISIS was a nightmare for the Syrian people – this is beyond debate. But you, the world – you all decided to fight ISIS and forgot about Assad.

In 2014, I was forced to leave Raqqa and flee to Turkey after ISIS came to my house to arrest me. After that, I moved to Germany and began to travel the world trying to bring attention to my country and my cause.

I pray that you will continue working with France and Great Britain and the rest of the free world until Assad is finally defeated once and for all.What's Lisa Boothe up to when she's not bringing her insightful political takes to Fox News Channel? Insider caught up with the Tennessee Volunteer-loving Fox News contributor to find out more...

1. Family is my everything. I am truly blessed to have a loving and close-knit family. My parents raised my three brothers and I to support and love one another. No matter what happens in life, good or bad, it is reassuring to know that my family will be there to cheer me on or lift me up. Fortunately, my family has expanded in the past couple of years with the addition of my amazing sister-in-law and my fur baby Bella, a Cavalier King Charles.

2. I love sports. I have done everything from taking ice skating and dance lessons when I was growing up, to playing field hockey and lacrosse in high school. With an athletic older brother close in age, we turned our house into a sports arena on a daily basis. That love for sports paid off with two state championship rings and making captain of my lacrosse team in my senior year of high school. Although it also led to me tearing my ACL and undergoing reconstructive surgery (ouch).

3. I'm very independent. I have always forged my own path in life. The word "no" has always been pretty meaningless to me. I tried running away when I was five. My Dad was so frustrated with me that he helped me pack a suitcase. My parents watched me walk down the street, princess suitcase in tow, and waited. When I came back, my Dad asked me why I had a change of heart. My response: "It’s just not the right day." My Mom, who was very worried about me walking down the street alone, was not happy with either of us.

4. "Likes long walks on the beach." No, seriously, I love the beach. Any beach is my happy place. There is something about the sand in between your toes and the waves crashing in that brings a sense of peace and freedom. I also just love being by the water. Every year my Mom and I try to take a weekend trip to Annapolis, Maryland.

5. I caught the political bug from my Dad, who worked on Capitol Hill for a senator for 10 years before going to law school. I grew up discussing politics with him. He is now both my mentor and sparring partner. I am a product of my parents' unconditional love and they always encouraged my independence towards positive things.

Catch Lisa each day across Fox News and Fox Business programming and keep up with her on Twitter and Instagram!

Check out more fun facts about your favorite Fox News personalities...

Melissa Francis

Janice Dean

Abby Huntsman

Bret Baier

Dana PerinoWhile new mom Khloe Kardashian has kept mum on the cheating reports involving her boyfriend Tristan Thompson, fans of the reality star are supporting Kardashian by voicing their opinions on social media.

Thompson's most recent Instagram post, which was shared on his account in the middle of week amidst the cheating rumor headlines, is now under attack with a slew of harsh comments from Kardashian fans that begin with the phrase "I hope."

According to People, some of the now 235,000K comments read:

“I hope you get stuck in an elevator with Solange.”

“I hope Kanye interrupts your acceptance speech.”

“I hope every soda you drink is already shaken up.”

“I hope you always bite the inside of your cheek when you chew your food.”

“I hope every time you get your headphones out they’re tangled.”

“I hope Netflix never loads for you.”

“I hope the toothpaste falls off your toothbrush every time you run it under water.”

“I hope Chipotle charges you two times extra for guacamole.

“I hope every time you try to take a picture, the ‘Not Enough Storage' notification pops up.”

“I hope all your Christmas gifts are socks.”

“I hope you step on a LEGO.”

“I hope you always have 10,000 spoons when all you need is a knife.”

On Thursday morning, Kardashian gave birth to a baby girl in the wake of scathing reports that Thompson had cheated her. But despite the rumors, a source told People that reality star “is feeling nothing but happiness right now," and "absolutely nothing else matters.”

The source also said that the new mom has already forgiven the NBA player for his scandalous ways despite the seemingly damning photos and video.

The star “isn’t even mad at Tristan right now,” the insider said. “She’s basically already forgiven him. She is in a bubble of love and peace and happiness right now, and everything that happened with Tristan is less about ‘cheating’ and more like, it was just a random drunken hookup that meant nothing and was kissing at most and didn’t lead to anything else and was the fault of stupid groupies trying to trap him, and everybody just needs to move on."

On Tuesday, TMZ posted a video that seemingly showed 27-year-old basketball player cheating on his girlfriend with two women in a Washington, D.C., nightclub. Kardashian was reportedly about three months into her pregnancy. In the footage taken back in October 2017, Thompson appears to kiss one girl while the other appears to grope him.

TMZ's video came after The Daily Mail first posted videos of Thompson in a hooded sweatshirt cozying up to another woman inside a nightclub. Soon after, The Shade Room posted a separate video that showed Thompson and the woman appearing to enter his hotel in New York together.

Following the news of the baby's birth and his reported forgiveness, the Daily Mail reported another story alleging that Thompson cheated on the reality star another time with a fifth woman.

According to the Mail, the basketball player has been intimate with a woman identified only as Tania over the past five months.

The pair have been pictured together several times at hotels and nightclubs.Gabrielle Union is not even going to entertain the idea that she was in any way involved in Tristan Thompson's reported cheating scandal, despite being caught in the background of a photo that showcased his alleged infidelity this week.

The Shade Room posted a series of photos showing Thompson and another woman appearing to enter the Four Seasons hotel together -- just days before his girlfriend, Khloe Kardashian, gave birth to a baby girl. But Kardashian fans couldn't help but point out the surprise celebrity guest in one of the photos.

"Meanwhile, Gabrielle Union was spotted minding her business in the background of the footage of #TristanThirdTrimesterThompson & his side piece, but inquiring minds want to know -- what's the tea sis?" The Shade Room posted on Instagram, along with a screen grab of a smiling Union as she appears to be exiting a vehicle.

FANS BOO TRISTAN THOMPSON IN FIRST GAME SINCE ALLEGEDLY CHEATING ON PREGNANT KHLOE KARDASHIAN

"Gab was ready for paparazzi," one Instagram user joked.

"Meanwhile Gabrielle in the back happy af to go to her husbands room," another added, referring to Union's marriage to NBA star Dwayne Wade.

"Still cracking up Gabrielle union in the background," one user replied.

But to Union, the image was no laughing matter.

After several media reports surfaced and fans flooded Union's social media accounts with questions, the 45-year-old actress decided to reply to The Shade Room and shut the rumors down once and for all.

"Don't know her. Didn't see her," Union wrote in the comments section of The Shade Room's post. "I was enjoying my night with my mama and aunt. We ain't involved in this."

KHLOE KARDASHIAN GIVES BIRTH TO BABY GIRL AMID TRISTAN THOMPSON CHEATING SCANDAL, REPORTS SAY

The Shade Room posted a screen shot of Union's reply on Instagram, writing, "#TSRClearTheAir: #GabrielleUnion has officially #SteppedIntoTheShadeRoom to say she doesn’t know anything, she didn’t see anything. Basically, 🗣 “My name’s Bennett, and I ain’t in it!” 😩😂👀 Okurrrr!"

The photo received more than 350,000 likes and garnered thousands of comments from Union supporters.

"Class act 😩 leave gabby alone," one Instagram user replied.

"Goodnight leave gabby out of it," another wrote.

Kardashian gave birth to a baby girl on Thursday, her first child with Thompson.

Photos of Thompson kissing a woman at PH-D Lounge in New York City were posted by The Daily Mail a day prior. TMZ also shared video from October appearing to show the basketball star kissing a woman at a DC hookah lounge. The same video also appeared to show Thompson touching and engaging with two other women. Kardashian was three months pregnant at the time.

But it looks like Kardashian is already ready to move on. According to PEOPLE, the “Keeping Up with the Kardashians” star has forgiven her Cleveland Cavaliers boyfriend over the accusations.

“[She] is feeling nothing but happiness right now,” a source told PEOPLE. “Absolutely nothing else matters.”Carried Underwood has shared another photo of her face ahead of her highly anticipated performance at the American Country Music Awards.

“Getting ready for the weekend…#CryPretty #ACMawards@CALIAbyCarrie,” Underwood captioned her Instagram post, featuring the singer sitting at the mic while rehearsing with her band.

Underwood, who has yet to show a full photo of her face since her November 10 accident when she fell down the steps of her Nashville home, leading her to have more than 40 stitches, confirmed that she would officially debut her face at the ACM Awards in Las Vegas.

The new Instagram photo of the singer's face comes after the star revealed two other photos prior to Sunday's ACMs.

On April 4, Carrie shared the very first semi-full photo of her face since her accident on social media.

In the black-and-white Instagram photo with no caption, Underwood is in a recording studio gazing intently. The 35-year-old country singer appeared to have a slightly darkened line above her lip. It's unclear, however, if that was a result of the fall or just the lighting in the photo. Several fans commented on the photo and speculated it was a scar from her disastrous fall.

A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Apr 4, 2018 at 8:01am PDT

Two days later, the singer posted another photo of herself on Instagram rehearsing with her band. Although the photo is taken from a distance, fans can catch a glimpse of the singer's full face.

On Tuesday, Underwood finally opened up to her fans about her injury recovering in an open letter on her website.

“First off, physically, I’m doing pretty darn good these days! My wrist is almost back to normal, about 90% there…and the docs say that last 10% will come in time. And my face has been healing pretty nicely as well,” Underwood wrote. “I definitely feel more like myself than I have in a while.”

The 35-year-old said the healing process has made her slow down — which she dubbed “forced relaxation” — and spend more time with her husband, Mike Fisher, and son, Isaiah. She called it a silver lining to the fall outside her Nashville home in November that caused her to receive nearly 50 stitches.

“Sometimes I think things happen in order to make us slow down. It also means I’ve been home to support my favorite hockey player coming out of retirement!” Underwood said, referring to Fisher’s return to the Nashville Predators.

Underwood finished her post by saying that she was excited to perform at the ACM Awards, her first public appearance since the November fall, and that she would also be releasing more details about her upcoming album and tour in the near future.

“Thank you all so much for your love and support this year and always. I feel it and I appreciate it. And I can’t wait to start this new chapter with you!”

At this year's award ceremony, Underwood is nominated for two awards, Best Female Vocalist of the Year and Best Vocal Event of the year.

Fox News' Katherine Lam contributed to this report.More than a week after announcing her breakup with longtime husband Channing Tatum, Jenna Dewan has officially broken her silence on Instagram.

The actress took to the photo sharing platform to share a simple message with fans: “Thank you guys for all your love. Love you right back,” she captioned the photo, which shows her standing on a beach in a crop top and a long, white skirt.

Dewan’s post comes after she and Tatum released a joint statement on April 2 announcing that they have “lovingly chosen to separate as a couple.”

CHANNING TATUM, JENNA DEWAN SPLIT AFTER 9 YEARS

"We fell deeply in love so many years ago and have had a magical journey together. Absolutely nothing has changed about how much we love one another, but love is a beautiful adventure that is taking us on different paths for now,” they wrote.

“Beautifully stated and much respected” one Instagram user commented at the time the couple announced their separation.

CHANNING TATUM, JENNA DEWAN: A RELATIONSHIP TIMELINE

“This is so poised and genuine. I wish everyone in the world could handle and express this feeling. So bittersweet,” another added.

The couple met in 2006 on the set of the movie “Step Up." They wed in 2009 and have one child together, a 4-year-old girl named Everly.

"We are still a family and will always be lovingly dedicated parents to Everly,” they said at the time.Kourtney and Kylie take Koachella!

Just hours after sharing pics and videos from the tarmac before taking off on their private plane, Kourtney Kardashian and Kylie Jenner have arrived at Coachella. The sisters were photographed picking up their VIP passes at the festival with their respective boyfriends, Younes Bendjima and Travis Scott, as well as Kylie's BFF, Jordyn Woods.

Kourtney beat the heat in a sheer black tank top and Adidas jogger pants, while her little sister and new mom sported a full-on denim ensemble. The 20-year-old reality star hid her face from cameras while walking inside, but looked relaxed as she was spotted by fans as she waited in line.

Khloe Kardashian and Tristan Thompson '100 Percent Committed' to Moving Past Cheating Scandal (Exclusive)

Kylie, who is set to make her first post-baby public appearance to host a Kourt x Kylie makeup launch party on Friday, took to Instagram to preview her look for the night -- and prove that after giving birth to daughter Stormi on Feb. 1, she's a "cool mom."

"I’m not a regular mom I’m a cool mom," she captioned a shot of her "cotton candy cream kylighter" hair.

The sisters' Indio adventure kicked off just one day after Khloe Kardashian gave birth to her first child with boyfriend Tristan Thompson at a Cleveland-area hospital. Kourtney and Kim Kardashian flew in for the birth and were in the delivery room with Kris Jenner and Khloe's best friend, Malika Haqq, on Thursday morning, while Thompson was photographed outside the hospital later that day amid his alleged cheating scandal.

Kylie Jenner Flaunts Her Flat Stomach Before Heading to Coachella for First Post-Baby Appearance

Reckless 🌴@FashionNova #ad A post shared by Kourtney Kardashian (@kourtneykardash) on Apr 13, 2018 at 6:34pm PDT

Kourtney and Kim flew back to Los Angeles on Thursday. "They have families and young kids to get back to. They were never planning on staying long even before the scandal," a source told ET. "Plus, Khloe will be back in L.A. very soon.”

As for the status of Khloe's relationship with Thompson, the source said: "They are both 100 percent committed to moving past this and focusing on the overwhelming joy they have in their life right now with their new daughter. Tristan knows he's got to step up now though and can't screw up."

Kylie Jenner Is the First Family Member to Publicly Congratulate Khloe Kardashian on Her Baby's BirthWith the season two premiere of the dark, dystopian drama “The Handmaid’s Tale” on the horizon, the book’s author, Margret Atwood, believes that the Trump presidency has helped fuel the show’s success.

“There no question,” Atwood confidently told Fox News at the fifth annual Variety Power of Women lunch in New York City, after being asked if the country’s political climate has contributed to the success of her adapted series. “They were still filming [the show] in 2016 – the first series – and they woke up on November the 9th and said, ‘we’re in a different show.’”

The famed author went on to explain that the 2016 election and Trump's win helped to shape the direction of the Hulu series.

“It wasn’t the show that changed, the frame changed and because the show updated itself to now, as they write they are able to reflect our reality,” she explained. “So, you’ll see some things in season two that may sound quite familiar to you.”

Although Atwood is the original mastermind behind the totalitarian society of Gilead, she isn’t the one who makes the final decisions when it comes to the show’s production. The 78-year-old author described how she is involved in the show’s creative process.

“I am what is called a consulting producer, which means I don’t have any actual power, but I get to talk to the showrunner Bruce Miller quite a bit, and we go back and forth on various things, and I get to see episode as they are completed,” the author said. “So I would say I have input, but no veto.”

As an honoree of Variety’s New York Women of Power celebration, Atwood had previously spoken to the outlet about her process of writing her iconic novel and her views of the current #MeToo movement, in addition to sharing her theories about the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center.

The critically acclaimed author originally said to the magazine, “They [the terrorists] didn’t get that idea from my opera, don’t worry. They got the idea from ‘Star Wars.’”

When asked if she “really believes that,” Atwood backed up her claim.

“Remember the first one?" she asked, referring to "Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope." "Two guys fly a plane in the middle of something and blow that up? The only difference is, in ‘Star Wars,’ they get away. Right after 9/11, they hired a bunch of Hollywood screenwriters to tell them how the story might go next. Sci-fi writers are very good at this stuff, anticipating future events. They don’t all come true, but there are interesting ‘what if’ scenarios.”

During Friday’s Power of Women luncheon, Atwood clarified her previous statements.

“It’s not an original thought. People had that thought at the time,” she told us. “Japanese pilots during WWII, same idea. There are very few absolutely new ideas. The difference with ‘Star Wars’ is because it was a film, Han Solo gets to fly away. He doesn’t blow up his own plane. He just blows up the Death Star.”

Standing by her comments, the author suggested that people pay more attention to sci-fi writers and the stories that they tell.

“You know, sci-fi writers have always had this idea ahead of reality,” the author said. “So, sci-fi writers have been and probably ought to be consulted about what they think the next thing is going to be.”

Before heading into the formal luncheon, Atwood made one last point. “Remember the two-way wrist radio, Dick Tracey? We’ve got that now.”

Season two of "The Handmaid's Tale" premieres April 25 on Hulu.Stars without the warpaint

See what your favorite celebrities look like before they hit the makeup chair... and after.

http://www.foxnews.com/">Fox News

http://www.foxnews.com/

Shauna Sand Click here for more pics of the sexy star on X17online.com. Former Playmat Shauna Sand opted for no makeup when she went on a quick snack run in Malibu. The blonde bombshell picked up a bottle of water and a bag of Cheetos during her outing. (X17) shauna-sand

Paget Brewster Paget Brewster, who played Kathy on "Friends" and appeared on "Criminal Minds," went for a natural look as she shopped for some groceries at Gelson's Market in Los Angeles. For more photos of Brewster, visit x17online.com (X17/Reuters) paget-brewster

Bella Hadid Bella Hadid took a break from the runway during Paris Fashion Week. The top model hit the town sporting a red roll neck dress and black PVC cap. For more photos of Hadid, visit x17online.com (X17/Reuters) bella-hadid

Bar Refaeli The top model and Leonardo DiCaprio's ex-girlfriend was spotted out and about in Milan without a touch of makeup. (Splash/Reuters) bar-refaeli

Iggy Azalea Iggy Azalea made sure to dress down for her flight into Los Angeles. The Australian rapper wore a gray sweatshirt and matching pants with sneakers, minus the makeup. The star signed a few autographs, but otherwise stayed focused on getting out of the airport. For more photos of Azalea, visit x17online.com. Iggy Azalea wore a gray sweatshirt and matching pants, with sneakers, for her flight into LA. The star signed a few autographs, but otherwise stayed focused on getting out of the airport. Saturday, January 27, 2018 X17online.com Iggy Azalea wore a gray sweatshirt and matching pants, with sneakers, for her flight into LA. The star signed a few autographs, but otherwise stayed focused on getting out of the airport. Saturday, January 27, 2018 X17online.com Iggy Azalea wore a gray sweatshirt and matching pants, with sneakers, for her flight into LA. The star signed a few autographs, but otherwise stayed focused on getting out of the airport. Saturday, January 27, 2018 X17online.com (X17/Reuters) iggy-azalea

Ashley Greene The "Twilight" actress looked run down sans her warpaint. The typically done-up actress stepped out bare-faced a getting a pedicure in Beverly Hills. Click here for more pics of the star on X17online.com (X17/Reuters) ashley-greene

Christina Aguilera Christina Aguilera toned down her signature glam makeup for a night out on the town. The singer was spotted having dinner at Craig's restaurant in Hollywood. (Splash/Reuters) christina-aguilera

Hilary Duff MORE: HILARY DUFF SLAYS IN A BLACK BIKINI WHILE ENJOYING A BEACH DAY WITH HER EX Hilary Duff didn't care for makeup when she decided to grab a green smoothie wearing comfy apparel in Los Angeles. (BG015/Bauergriffin.com/MEGA / Reuters) hilary-duff

Gwen Stefani Gwen Stefani looked natural and casual at church without her signature bright lipstick. The 48-year-old singer was accompanied by her youngest son, Apollo, who was enjoying a donut. For more photos of Stefani, visit X17online.com (X17/Reuters) gwen-stefani

Mischa Barton Mischa Barton was spotted with a more natural look while checking out of her NYC hotel with boyfriend James Abercrombie and her pup. (Splash/Reuters) mischa-barton

Chrissy Teigen Chrissy Teigen was all smiles as she went makeup-free to board her flight at LAX. The 31-year-old Sports Illustrated model is the wife of John Legend. For more photos of Teigen, visit x17online.com (X17/Reuters) chrissy-teigen

Selena Gomez Selena Gomez was photographed without wearing any makeup while heading to the gym in a sports bra. The 25-year-old carried a copy of missionary Sarah Young's book "Jesus Calling: Enjoying Peace in His Presence." For more photos of Gomez, visit X17Online.com (X17/Reuters) selena-gomez

Alessandra Ambrosio Alessandra Ambrosio, who has been a Victoria's Secret Angel for over a decade now, opted for a natural look while traveling to Los Angeles. The Brazilian model is 36. For more photos of Ambrosio, visit x17online.com (X17/Reuters) alessandra-ambrosio

Paris Jackson Paris Jackson was spotted makeup-free while enjoying a cigarette outside of a New York City coffeeshop. The 19-year-old model and daughter of late pop star Michael Jackson recently attended the 2017 MTV Video Music Awards in California. (Splash/Reuters) paris-jackson

Kaley Cuoco A fresh-face Kaley Cuoco was in a humorous mood after her morning workout, waving at photographers and making funny faces. To see more photos of the 31-year-old "Big Bang Theory" actress, visit x17online.com (X17/Reuters) kaley-cuoco

Mayim Bialik The "Big Bang Theory" actress shared with fans a photo of herself before and after she did her makeup. "Here's me before and after doing my own make-up and hair for my upcoming vlog! Not too shabby if I say so myself," she wrote. Click here for more pics of Bialik on Hollywoodlife.com. (Instagram) mayim-bialik

Drew Barrymore Drew Barrymore earned praised from fans after she posted a makeup-free selfie on Instagram where she revealed her greying hair and wild brows. For more photos of the 42-year-old actress, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram/Reuters) drew-barrymore

Korie Robertson "Duck Dynasty" star Korie Robertson posted a no-makeup selfie to Instagram after her daughter Sadie convinced her to. Robertson said she was reluctant to post the selfie "because it's not exactly the norm or particularly comfortable for me to post a selfie, especially a selfie with literally no makeup on, but Sadie made me feel beautiful and cherished." Click here for more pics of the reality star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Reuters) korie-robertson

Sophie Turner "Game of Thrones" actress Sophie Turner appeared fresh-face after a flight. For more photos of the 21-year-old, visit X17online.com. Game of Thrones star Sophie Turner arriving at LAC july 11, 2017 /X17online.com Game of Thrones star Sophie Turner arriving at LAC july 11, 2017 /X17online.com Game of Thrones star Sophie Turner arriving at LAC july 11, 2017 /X17online.com Game of Thrones star Sophie Turner arriving at LAC july 11, 2017 /X17online.com (X17/Reuters) sophie-turner

Eva Longoria Actress Eva Longoria went through TSA while jetting out of Los Angeles with an all-natural look. Visit X17online.com for more photos of the 42-year-old. (X17/Reuters) eva-longoria

Elizabeth Olsen Elizabeth Olsen arrived to Paris with boyfriend Robbie Arnett for Fashion Week. Visit X17Online.com for more photos of the 28-year-old actress (X17/Reuters) elizabeth-olsen

Anna Faris Makeup-free Anna Faris was spotted at LAX airport on May 8, 2017 with her son. The 40-year-old actress completed her look with a New York Yankees baseball cap. Visit X17Online.com for more photos of Faris. (X17 / Reuters) anna-faris

Kelsea Ballerini Kelsea Ballerini was spotted relaxing with her dog and a glass of wine sans makeup. The 23-year-old country crooner captioned the photo, "These are a few of my favorite things." Visit HollywoodLife.com for more pictures of Ballerini. (Instagram.com/KelseaBallerini / Reuters) kelsea-ballerini

Taylor Hill Victoria's Secret Angel Taylor Hill was spotted jetting out of LAX sans makeup after Coachella. Visit HollywoodLife.com for more pictures of the model. (X17 / Instagram.com/taylor_hill) taylor-hill

Sofia Vergara Sofia Vergara shared a selfie sans makeup on April 11th, revealing she was suffering from a fever. "Hm..I just realised that 102 fever gives u the perfect shades of pink. I need this color," captioned the 44-year-old actress. Visit HollywoodLife.com for more photos of Vergara (instagram.com/sofiavergara / Reuters) sofia-vergara

Ashley Graham Ashley Graham manages to look just as beautfil sans makeup as she does with it. The model showed off her bare face on Instagram with the caption, "Feeling right at home." Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Reuters) ashley-graham

Tomi Lahren Political commentator Tomi Lahren showed off a new side of herself on Instagram. Lahren chose an au natural selfie of herself to share with her fans (left). Click here for more star pics on Hollywoodlife.com. (Instagram/ABC) tomi-lahren

Sia sans wig Sia was spotted at LAX on Wednesday without wearing one of her signature wigs. Earlier this year, the 41-year-old Australian singer/songwriter attended the Oscars Vanity Fair Party in Beverly Hills and made sure to showcase her famous two-tone short bob wig. (Reuters/X17) sia-sans-wig

Rosie O'Donnell Rosie O'Donnell shared a less-than flattering picture of herself on Twitter. It's not the comedian's best look if you ask us. Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Reuters) rosie-o'donnell

Melissa McCarthy Melissa McCarthy (left) looked worse for wear as she stepped out sans makeup. The star looked more like herself on the red carpet (right). Click here for more stars without makeup on ETonline.com (Pacific Coast News/Reuters) melissa-mccarthy

Angie Harmon While Angie Harmon usually looks great sans makeup, the actress shared a less than flattering snap of herself on Instagram. Click here for more pics of Harmon on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Reuters) angie-harmon

Sadie Robertson Sadie Robertson went sans makeup in a black-and-white selfie on Instagram . We love the "Duck Dynasty" star's fresh-faced look but think she looks equally beautiful with a little makeup. Click here for more pics of the reality star on HollywoodLife.com (Instagram/Graham Meyers) sadie-robertson

Jessie James Decker Jessie James Decker gaves fans a look at what she looks like without makeup. The country singer look great without her warpaint although who doesn't love a glammed-up Decker (right) every once in a while. Click here for more pictures of Decker on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) jessie-james-decker

Amy Schumer Amy Schumer went makeup-free (left) on Instagram. "No makeup air dry hair!" she wrote alongside the picture. She definitely looked more camera-ready on the right. Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Reuters) amy-schumer

Kelly Ripa Kelly Ripa shared a selfie of herself and son Michael voting in the presidential election. Ripa, who took her son to vote for the first time, went sans makeup to the polls and still looked fabulous! Click here for more pictures of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) kelly-ripa

Carrie Underwood It takes a lot of work (and sweat!) to look as good as Carrie Underwood. The country superstar shared a post-workout selfie, calling herself a "sweaty mess." "I'm a sweaty mess, but I'm a sweaty mess in an adorable tank!" she wrote adding the hashtags "#keepitreal" and "#benice." Even after a workout, Underwood looks great! Click here for more pictures of the singer on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/Reuters) carrie-underwood

Jessica Robertson "Duck Dynasty" star Jessica Robertson wrote on Instagram that she's "not sorry" for sharing a picture (left) of herself without makeup. And why should she be when she looks beautiful without it? She did get all done-up in her Sunday best for Phil and Miss Kay's marriage vows renewal on 2013. Click here for more Robertson family news on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram/A&E) jessica-robertson

Ronda Rousey Ronda Rousey stepped out sans makeup and look shabby in an ill-fitting striped dress and green jacket (left). The star definitely looked like she put a lot more thought into her look when she dressed up for the red carpet (right). Click here for more star sightings. (Pacific Coast News) ronda-rousey

Katie Holmes Katie Holmes was dressed down as she took her daughter, Suri, to a gymnastics class in Los Angeles. The actress looked tired without the help of makeup. Click here for more pictures of Holmes on X17online.com (X17/Reuters) katie-holmes

Courteney Cox Courteney Cox did not look happy to have her photo taken when she wasn't wearing makeup (left). The former "Friends" star looked photo-ready in 2015 when she walked the red carpet (right). Click here for more pictures of Cox on X17online.com (Reuters) courteney-cox-

Cindy Crawford Super model Cindy Crawford looks like herself with and without warpaint, but a little makeup definitely goes a long way for the star. Click here for more pictures of Crawford on X17online.com. (X17/Reuters) cindy-crawford

Nina Dobrev The former "Vampire Diaries" shared a picture of herself and a friend on Instagram (left) sans makeup. While Dobrev looked great made-up on the red carpet (right) we love her makeup-free look! Click here to see what else the stars are sharing on Instagram. (Reuters/Instagram) nina-dobrev

Courtney Stodden The constantly made-up star posted a picture on Instagram sans the warpaint saying, "feeling like a little kid tonight. Bored & pouty! #nomakeup #selfie." Click here for more pics of stars without makeup. (Instagram) courtney-stodden

Courtney Stodden Here, Court looks much more like the once teen bride we're used to seeing. She is seen here showing off her signature bleach blonde locks and a full face of makeup. Click here for more pictures of Courtney. (X17online) courtney-stodden

Salma Hayek Salma Hayek proved to the world she's just as flawless without makeup. The actress shared a picture of herself on Instagram without a filter. Although she admits she had a little help from "good lighting." Click here for more stars without makeup. (Instagram/Reuters) salma-hayek

Brie Larson and Amy Schumer Amy Schumer shared a picture of herself and her "Trainwreck" costar Brie Larson sans makeup. The actresses sure look different from when their glam team styles them. Click here to see how Schumer reacted to the Golden Globe nominations. (Instagram/Reuters) brie-larson-and-amy-schumer

Danica Patrick Race car driver Danica Patrick proved she doesn't need the help of makeup to look beautiful. While it's always fun to see the star dressed up (right), she looks equally stunning sans the warpaint hanging out at home with her dogs. Click here for more pictures of stars with their pets. (Instagram/Reuters) danica-patrick

Christie Brinkley The supermodel shared a picture of herself without makeup and we have to say, Brinkley's seen better days. The mom-of-three usually looks stunning with and without her warpaint, but this picture has us spooked. Click here to see Christie's bikini body. (Instagram/Reuters) christie-brinkley

Bar Refaeli The Israeli-born model looks stunning even sans makeup. She shared a picture of herself before her makeup team glammed her up. Click here for more pictures of stars without makeup. (Instagram/Reuters) bar-refaeli

Brittny Gastineau Paparazzi caught reality personality Brittny Gastineau sans makeup in Beverly Hills. The socialite's skin looked splotchier than usual and she appeared tired-looking without a little help from blush and a good foundation. Click here for more pics of the star on X17online.com. (X17) brittny-gastineau

Kylie Jenner Without makeup on, left, Kylie Jenner looks like the teenager she is. Click here for more pics of Kylie sans makeup from X17Online. (x17) kylie-jenner

Christina Applegate Christina Applegate was trying to fly under the radar (left) when she stepped out sans warpaint when she arrived in LAX. She opted for a natural look with a pop of red lipstick on the red carpet. A little makeup goes a long way. Click here for more pictures of the star on X17online.com. (X17/Reuters) christina-applegate

Cara Santana Cara Santana looked very different from her glammed-up self when she stepped out sans makeup. The actress appeared pale and tired while talking on the phone. Click here for more pictures of the star on X17online.com. (Reuters/X17) cara-santana

Jessica Simpson Jessica Simpson looked like she partied a little too hard when she stepped out to dinner with some friends. Do you prefer her with or without makeup? Let us know on Twitter @FOX411. (X17/Reuters) jessica-simpson

Tyra Banks Tyra Banks wants her fans to know the real her. The 41-year-old model took to Instagram to share an unfiltered photo with her followers. "Well, this morn, I decided to give you a taste of the really real me. I wanted to smooth out my dark circles so badly!!! But I was like, 'Naw, Ty. Show 'em the REAL you,'" she wrote. "So...here I am. Raw. And there YOU are...looking at me, studying this picture. Maybe you're thinking, 'Whoa, she looks ROUGH.' And if you are, great! You deserve to see the REAL me. The REALLY real me." (Instagram/Reuters) tyra-banks

Kris Jenner Kris Jenner was not camera ready when she went to pick up her two youngest daughters at the airport. The Kardashian matriarch looked more refreshed (left) with her hair and makeup done. Click here for more pictures of Jenner on X17online.com. (Reuters/X17) kris-jenner

Kirsten Dunst: No makeup A bare-faced Dunst looked flushed and puffy at while riding her bike. Click here for pictures of the actress. (FlameFlyNet) kirsten-dunst:-no-makeup

Kirsten Dunst: With makeup Dunst looked much better with bright-red lipstick and rosy-red chicks at the premiere of "The Two Faces of January" in London. (Reuters) kirsten-dunst:-with-makeup

Renee Zellweger The "Bridget Jones' Diary" star got lots of attention in 2014 for her drastically revamped faced, left. She recently stepped out without makeup showing off her new facial features, without the warpaint. Click here to find out what Renee said about plastic surgery. (Reuters/ Splash ) renee-zellweger

Kate Upton Women everywhere will be happy to know that even People's Sexiest Woman Alive has bad skin days. Kate Upton took a break from her usually made-up face and put her natural beauty (and imperfections) on full display. It's almost like she's human! Almost. See more photos of Kate without makeup. (INF/Reuters) kate-upton

Halle Berry: No makeup It's hard to recognize one of Hollywood's hottest leading ladies in this candid pic. Berry looks scary without her perfectly made up face and styled hair. This proves that even the most gorgeous of stars needs a little help sometimes. Click here for more from X17online. (X17) halle-berry:-no-makeup

Halle Berry: With makeup There's the Halle we know and love. The actress looks flawless in this photo. (Reuters) halle-berry:-with-makeup

Miley Cyrus without makeup Miley is looking worse for wear without any makeup on as she hangs out on a balcony with Wayne Coyne, of the Flaming Lips. (Coleman Rayner ) miley-cyrus-without-makeup

Miley Cyrus with makeup The former Disney star looks very different with her face carefully made up while she sings on stage. (AP) miley-cyrus-with-makeup

Sarah Hyland Sarah Hyland may look mad in this picture, but the "Modern Family" actress was actually having fun on vacation in Hawaii. Hyland went au natural and enjoyed her time at the beach with friends. Click here for more news on Hyland. (Instagram) sarah-hyland

Sarah Hyland: With warpain Hyland looked effortlessly smooth with her hair pulled back and light makeup at the Emmys. (AP) sarah-hyland:-with-warpain

Maria Shriver: No warpaint Maria Shriver looked well beyond her 59 years as she took a stroll in her Brentwood, New York neighborhood. Click here for more pictures of the former first lady of California on X17online.com. (X17online.com) maria-shriver:-no-warpaint

Maria Shriver: With makeup Maria Shriver stunned in a pale-blue dress and light makeup at the 2014 Creative Arts Emmy Awards in Los Angeles. (Reuters) maria-shriver:-with-makeup

RaeLynn: No makeup "Voice" alum RaeLynn went makeup-free in this cute snap of her and her older brother. "Big Brother <3" she wrote on Instagram. Click here for the latest new on "The Voice." (Instagram) raelynn:-no-makeup

RaeLynn: With makeup The country singer matched her lipstick color to the rose on her as she posed at an awards show. (Reuters) raelynn:-with-makeup

JWoww: No makeup The reality star fought back at plastic surgery rumors by posting an au naturel selfie on Instagram. "Very flattered...that u think I had all that work done but I'm just a plain jane mom with wrinkles without makeup," the new mom wrote. The barely recognizable former "Jersey Shore" star should try this minimalist look more often. She looks better without her usual caked-on look. Click here for JWoww's crazy house tour. (Instagram) jwoww:-no-makeup

JWoww: With makeup Between JWoww's overly-bronzed foundation, fake eyelashes and way too-pink lipstick, this look is just overdone. (Reuters) jwoww:-with-makeup

Miranda Lambert: No warpaint The "Platinum" singer showed off her shorter new 'do and lighter locks on Instagram. She also dared to bare her makeup-free face. What do you think of Lambert's fresh look? Click here for more pictures of the country singer. (Instagram) miranda-lambert:-no-warpaint

Miranda Lambert: With makeup Lambert, who prefers jeans and a tank top, dressed up for her Macy's July 4th special performance. The singer kept her makeup simple while she pumped up her hair. She is from Texas after all. (NBC) miranda-lambert:-with-makeup

Ashley Tisdale: No makeup Tisdale hit the gym sans makeup, probably prepping for her big day. The former Disney star is set to marry musician Christopher French this summer. Click here for more pics of Tisdale's workout outing. (Fame Flynet) ashley-tisdale:-no-makeup

Ashley Tisdale: With makeup The 29-year-old Tisdale packed on the powder and red lipstick on the red carpet. (Reuters) ashley-tisdale:-with-makeup

Katherine McPhee: No makeup The "Smash" actress didn't look her best after leaving a dinner event. Maybe she's stressed from her recently filing for divorce from her husband Nick Cokas after six years of marriage? For more pictures of McPhee, go to X17online.com. (X17online.com) katherine-mcphee:-no-makeup

Katherine McPhee: With makeup McPhee looked much better with some makeup back in 2013 during the press tour for her now-cancelled show "Smash." (Reuters) katherine-mcphee:-with-makeup

Kristin Chenoweth: No paint The pint-sized singer looks worn out returning from a trip at at LAX. For more pictures of Chenoweth, go to X17online.com. (X17online.com) kristin-chenoweth:-no-paint

Kristin Chenoweth: Painted Now that's better. Chenoweth glowed on the Oscars' red carpet. (AP) kristin-chenoweth:-painted

LeAnn Rimes: No makeup Rimes went makeup-free on a groceries shopping trip. The singer looks like she could use the help of at least a little blush...do you prefer her au natural? Click here for more pictures of the star on X17online.com. (X17online.com) leann-rimes:-no-makeup

LeAnn Rimes: Painted Rimes look refreshed with rosy cheeks and a smokey eye. (Reuters) leann-rimes:-painted

Rosie Huntington-Whiteley: No makup Turns out Rosie looks just as beautiful sans makeup as with. The model posed with a pout and her pups and shared the adorable pic with her fans on Instagram. The dark lighting and filtering probably didn't hurt her makeup-free face. See more stars without paint here. (Instagram) rosie-huntington-whiteley:-no-makup

Rosie Huntington-Whiteley: All done up The 26-year-old Whiteley packed on the paint at the British Fashion Awards. She slicked her hair back and painted her lips bright red for a more done-up look. (Reuters) rosie-huntington-whiteley:-all-done-up

Lorde- No Makeup Lorde without makeup The now two time Grammy winner looks less than glamorous without makeup shopping with friends. See what the "Royals" singer wore to the award show at X17online.com. (X17online.com) (X17online.com) lorde--no-makeup

Lorde Lorde with makeup The 17-year-old singer sported dark lipstick as she posed in the press room with the her awards for best pop solo performance and song of the year for "Royals" at the 56th annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles. (AP) lorde

Jaime King- No Makeup Jaime King Without Makeup The actress and new mom looked tired, but still cute while going all natural at the Montage Hotel in West Hollywood. See more photos of Jaime at X17online.com. (X17online.com) jaime-king--no-makeup

Jaime King Jaime King With Makeup Jaime brought on the old Hollywood glamour with red lips and side-swept waves at the 2013 Critic's Choice Awards. (Reuters) jaime-king

Kim Kardashian- No Makeup Kim Kardashian Without Makeup New mom Kim Karashian looked tired and pale without her usual full face of makeup as she left a nail salon. Click here for more pics of Kim (X17) (X17online.com) kim-kardashian--no-makeup

Kim Kardashian Kim Kardashian With Makeup Here, Kim shows off her usual made-up look that we're all much more used to seeing. Click here for more photos from X17 (X17) (Nicole/X17Online.com) kim-kardashian

Kristen Bell- No Makeup Kristen Bell Without Makeup The actress looked mighty disheveled after getting off a flight at LAX. We'll give her the benefit of the doubt and guess turbulence was to blame. See more photos of Kristen at X17online.com. (X17online.com) kristen-bell--no-makeup

Kristen Bell Kristen Bell With Makeup After getting a little touch-up and flashing her signature grin, the Kristen we know and love is back. (Reuters) kristen-bell

Amber Valetta- No Makeup Amber Valletta Without Makeup The model-turned-actress has a gorgeous face, and even sans makeup she doesn't look nearly her age. (She was born in 1974!) For more pics of Amber, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) amber-valetta--no-makeup

Amber Valletta Amber Valletta With Makeup Amber is almost always seen with smoky eyes. For more pics of Amber, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) amber-valletta

Sharon Stone- No Makeup Sharon Stone Without Makeup After partying it up in Cannes, Sharon Stone lands stateside looking fresh and rejuvenated on May 24. Not many women her age (she's in her mid-50s) can pull off the fresh faced look. For more pics of Sharon, go to x17online.com. (Maciel/X17online.com) sharon-stone--no-makeup

Sharon Stone Sharon Stone With Makeup The ageless actress attends the Cinema Against AIDS 2013 event during the 66th Cannes Film Festival on May 23, 2013. (Reuters) sharon-stone

Hayden_without Hayden Panettiere Without Makeup Hayden looks like any average 12-year-old when she's without the face paint - problem is, she's actually in her 20s. For more pics of Hayden, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) hayden_without

Hayden Panettiere Hayden Panettiere With Makeup Hayden looks closer to her age when she's glammed up, but regardless she probably still gets carded at bars. For more pics of Hayden, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) hayden-panettiere

sally_field_without_makeup Sally Field Without Makeup Normally, women born in the '40s would look way better with makeup, but in Sally's case, a clean face post a great workout is a better look. Click through to see Sally glammed up looking 10 years older. For more pics do Sally, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) sally_field_without_makeup

Sally Field- No Makeup Sally Field With Makeup The actress looks glamorous, but something about all the makeup seems to add years to her face. (Reuters) sally-field--no-makeup

Kathy_without_makeup Kathy Griffin Without Makeup The comedian sure looks scary when she ditches her beauty routine - which includes brushing out her hair. For more pics of Kathy, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) kathy_without_makeup

kathy_griffin_with_makeup Kathy Griffin With Makeup Much better! Kathy clearly spent some time getting dolled up for the 64th Primetime Emmy Awards in Los Angeles. (Reuters) kathy_griffin_with_makeup

brandi_without_makeup Brandi Glanville Without Makeup Now this is a rare appearance. The "Real Housewife of Beverly Hills" is seen without a drop of makeup and she's barely recognizable! For more pics of Brandi, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) brandi_without_makeup

brandi_with_makeup Brandi Glanville With Makeup This is more like it. Now she fits in with the other Beverly Hills gals. For more pics of Brandi, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) brandi_with_makeup

anne_without_makeup Anne Hathaway Without Makeup Anne tries to go incognito as she visits a bookshop near her home in Brooklyn. For more pics of Anne, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) anne_without_makeup

Anne_with_makeup Anne Hathaway With Makeup The star looks super cute with her pixie cut and smoky eyes. For more pics of Anne, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) anne_with_makeup

Malin_without_makeup Malin Akerman Without Makeup The then-pregnant actress went makeup free at the doctor's office. For more pics of Malin, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) malin_without_makeup

Malin_with_makeup Malin Akerman With Makeup The funny actress looks smokin' at Spike TV's 6th Annual 'Guys Choice' Awards in LA. For more pics of Malin, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) malin_with_makeup

Leighton_Meester no makeup The "Gossip Girl" star is known for her amazing looks and style, but here while out with friends, she decided to leave the house sans makeup. Click here for more pics of Leighton from X17 (X17) leighton_meester-no-makeup

Leighton Meester with makeup Here, the stylish star is fully made up for the 2011 MTV Movie Awards. Click here for more pics of Leighton from X17 (X17) leighton-meester-with-makeup

Busy Philipps no makeup The fresh-looking "Cougar Town" actress stayed fit while pregnant by taking spin classes at Soul Cycle in Los Angeles. For more pics of Busy, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) busy-philipps-no-makeup

Busy Philipps with makeup Even on the red carpet the blonde star doesn't usually wear a lot of makeup. (Reuters) busy-philipps-with-makeup

Drew Barrymore no makeup The actress and mom looks tired in Beverly Hills while out with her hubby Will Kopelman. Check out Drew and Will showing off some PDA at a Knicks game. (FameFlynet) drew-barrymore-no-makeup

Drew Barrymore with makeup Drew Barrymore With Makeup This is more like the Drew we're used to seeing. (Reuters) (Reuters) drew-barrymore-with-makeup

Natalie Portman no makeup The Oscar winner has all but vanished from the scene since giving birth to her son Aleph in June 2011. And by the looks of it, working and being a mom has taken its toll on the young actress. For more pics of Natalie, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) natalie-portman-no-makeup

Natalie Portman with makeup It's amazing what a little help from a makeup artist can do. (Reuters) natalie-portman-with-makeup

Mila Kunis no makeup The gorgeous actress wasn't too shy to sport a clean face while out with beau Ashton Kutcher in Studio City. This look is a far cry from the cat eyes we normally see her with. For more pics of Mila, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) mila-kunis-no-makeup

Mila Kunis with makeup The gorgeous star of "Ted" has come a long way from "That '70s Show." (Reuters) mila-kunis-with-makeup

Alison Sweeney no makeup "The Biggest Loser" host actually looks pretty good without the face paint caked on. Not everyone in Hollywood is so lucky. For more pics of Alison, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) alison-sweeney-no-makeup

Alison Sweeney with makeup She looks like a Barbie doll with pin-up hair and bright red lips. (Reuters) alison-sweeney-with-makeup

Tori Spelling no makeup Tori looks none too pleased to be spotted with a clean face. For more pics of Tori, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) tori-spelling-no-makeup

Tori Spelling There's a fine line between what looks good and what looks like clown makeup. Tori clearly doesn't know the difference. (Reuters) tori-spelling

Lori Loughlin no makeup The "90210" star looks like a deer in headlights as she walks her dogs in Los Angeles. For more pics of Lori, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) lori-loughlin-no-makeup

Lori Loughlin with makeup It's hard to believe that Aunt Becky was born in 1964! (Reuters) lori-loughlin-with-makeup

Amber Rose no makeup The model is unrecognizable without her normal layer of face paint. For more pics of Amber, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) amber-rose-no-makeup

Amber Rose with makeup The mom-to-be is known for her fashion sense and military hairdo. For more pics of Amber, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) amber-rose-with-makeup

Alyson Hannigan no makeup The "How I Met Your Mother" actress went for a natural look while shopping with her husband, Alexis Denis, and baby Keva. For more photos of Alyson, go to X17online.com (X17online.com) alyson-hannigan-no-makeup

Alyson Hannigan with makeup The actress went glam for the 2012 People's Choice Awards in Los Angeles. (Reuters) alyson-hannigan-with-makeup

Nicole Richie no makeup The mom-of-two looks like she could use some pampering at a nail salon. For more pics of Nicole, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) nicole-richie-no-makeup

Nicole Richie with makeup The fashionista has one of those faces that really sparkles when she's done up. (Reuters) nicole-richie-with-makeup

Helen Hunt no makeup The actress isn't afraid to let her age show on her face. She still looks darn good for a woman born in 1963! For more pics of Helen, go to x17online.com. (AlphaX/X17online.com) helen-hunt-no-makeup

Helen Hunt with makeup The star of "The Surrogate" looks gorgeous at the Sundance Film Festival premiere of her movie. (Reuters) helen-hunt-with-makeup

Amanda Seyfried no makeup Without makeup, the star can pass for a teen. (X17online.com) amanda-seyfried-no-makeup

Amanda Seyfried with makeup The actress dolls it up for the Los Angeles premiere of her movie "Gone." (AP) amanda-seyfried-with-makeup

Jessica Biel no makeup Justin Timberlake's love touched down in LAX after flying back from Paris au natural.Her skin still manages to look flawless. For more pics of Jess, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) jessica-biel-no-makeup

Jessica Biel with makeup The actress looks even more stunning when she's dolled up. (Reuters) jessica-biel-with-makeup

Sandra Bullock no makeup The Academy Award winning actress looks like your average mom just out shopping for shoes. For more pics of Sandra, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) sandra-bullock-no-makeup

Sandra Bullock with makeup Bullock looks about half her age sometimes. (AP) sandra-bullock-with-makeup

Kristen Stewart no makeup "Twilight" starlet Stewart comes home to her L.A. abode without a trace of makeup. For more pics of Kristen Stewart, visit x17online.com (X17online.com) kristen-stewart-no-makeup

Kristen Stewart with makeup K. Stew manages to still look dirty even when she looks glam. (AP) kristen-stewart-with-makeup

Reese Witherspoon no makeup Reese leaves the gym barefaced (what, she's supposed to wear full makeup while working out?) Luckily, she still looks great even after breaking a sweat. For more pics of Reese, visit x17online.com. (X17online.com) reese-witherspoon-no-makeup

Reese Witherspoon with makeup Reese brings the glamour to a photocall in Berlin. (Reuters) reese-witherspoon-with-makeup-

Charlize Theron with makeup The South African beauty arrives for the premiere of "The Burning Plain" in Los Angeles looking flawless. (Reuters) charlize-theron-with-makeup

Maggie Gyllenhaal no makeup The actress and hubby Peter Sarsgaard (not pictured) leave the Music Box Theater after watching a performance by Radiohead. For more pics of Maggie, visit x17online.com. (X17online.com) maggie-gyllenhaal-no-makeup

Maggie Gyllenhaal with makeup The actress gets dolled up for an Agent Provocateur lingerie ad. Sexy! (Agent Provocateur) maggie-gyllenhaal-with-makeup

Amy Poehler no makeup The comedy queen looks just as fresh-faced as her baby son Archie! For more pics of Amy, visit x17online.com. (X17online.com) amy-poehler-no-makeup

Amy Poehler with makeup The actress looks stunning as she arrives at the 15th Annual Critics' Choice Movie Awards in L.A. (Reuters) amy-poehler-with-makeup-

Nicollette Sheridan no makeup Nicollette gets her coffee fix at a Calabasas, California Coffee Bean with unbrushed hair and no makeup. For more pics of Nicollette, visit x17online. (X17online.com) nicollette-sheridan-no-makeup

Nicollette Sheridan with makeup The 'Desperate Housewives' star looks stunning at the 15th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards. (AP) nicollette-sheridan-with-makeup

Ellen DeGeneres no makeup The funny lady goes for a natural look at Melrose Place in West Hollywood. (Bambam/X17online.com) ellen-degeneres-no-makeup

Ellen Degeneres with makeup DeGeneres poses with her award for Favorite Talk Show Host at the 35th annual People's Choice awards. (Reuters) ellen-degeneres-with-makeup

Debra Messing no makeup The "Smash" star tries to hide her bare face with her phone while out shopping at Fred Segal in Santa Monica. Hopefully she was calling her stylist. For more pics of Debra Messing, visit x17online.com (X17online.com) debra-messing-no-makeup

Debra Messing with makeup She cleans up well! The redhead dazzles at the Emmy awards this past September. (AP) debra-messing-with-makeup

Sharon Stone no makeup Sharon Stone leaving a hair salon in Beverly Hills. Her hair looks great, now she needs some makeup! (X17online.com) sharon-stone-no-makeup

Sharon Stone no makeup Sharon Stone attends Italian jewelery design house Damiani's event to promote the company's "Sharon Stone Collection" in Tokyo. (Reuters) sharon-stone-no-makeup

AnnaLynne McCord no makeup The "90210" star goes out without makeup looking a bit rough around the edges. Just a bit. For more pics of AnnaLynne McCord, visit x17online.com (X17online.com) annalynne-mccord-no-makeup

AnnaLynne McCord with makeup The blonde arrives at the 13th Annual Hollywood Awards Gala looking stellar. (AP) annalynne-mccord-with-makeup

Brooke Shields no makeup Brooke hits the streets of NYC au natural. For more pics of Brooke Shields, visit x17online.com (X17online.com) brooke-shields-no-makeup

Brooke Shields with makeup The actress arrives at the MET Costume Institute Gala in New York. (AP) brooke-shields-with-makeup

Pam Anderson no makeup Pam Anderson shows off a more natural look at Trancas supermarket in Malibu. For more pics of Pam Anderson, visit X17online.com (X17online.com) pam-anderson-no-makeupIf you're in the habit of mowing your lawn at least once a week, you may want to consider mowing less after knowing what we know.

We get it—there’s nothing as satisfying as looking out at a freshly mowed lawn on a summer’s day. Mowing your lawn means keeping those weeds and wildflowers tame around your landscape, which probably seems like a problem that needs to be dealt with frequently. However, you may want to consider letting those wildflowers and weeds grow just a bit for the bees.

A post shared by Angelika Haumer (@samin_vienna) on Apr 14, 2018 at 2:44am PDT

Yes, bees. By mowing your lawn every week you are leaving no life for bees to feed on. Now maybe this doesn’t seem like a huge problem, because who would want bees on their lawn? They are even more annoying than those weeds and wildflowers, so mowing your lawn consistently seems like the ultimate solution. However, if you keep a garden (or care about the growth of vegetables and fruit), you need to feed the bees.

Bees are natural pollinators, which help the growth of your plants. By having plants to feed on, they can cross-pollinate and help to naturally fertilize your plants. This is especially crucial for the growth of vegetables and fruit. According to an article published by the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC) in March of 2011, cross-pollination helps at least 30 percent of the world’s crops to grow, and 90 percent of wild plants. Without bees, these plants wouldn’t thrive or could even die off completely.

In 2007, beekeepers were seeing cases of colony collapse disorder (CCD) where honeybees were leaving their colonies for good. Typically worker bees don’t leave their colonies unless a queen leaves the hive and brings along bees with her. The fact that bees are leaving can happen for numerous reasons, but not having enough food or water is certainly one of them.

Now maybe you hate bees and don’t really care about them thriving at all, but if you care about your garden, you would consider cutting that lawn at least every other week so the bees have something to feed on (and use to pollinate your precious plants).

Just make sure to pick up the dog poop before mowing your lawn, because it can be a serious threat to the health of your yard.

This story originally appeared in the Family Handyman.A 10-year-old girl is urging people to stop bullying one another by sharing her own heartbreaking story in a video that’s now gone viral.

Cassidy Slater, a fourth-grader at John Adams Elementary School in Scranton, Pa., shared the video on Facebook. In it, she’s holding up signs that tell the story of how she’s been bullied since first grade.

“One day during recess, a group of kids grabbed my purse off a teacher, and spit on it and me,” one of her signs reads. She goes on to explain that kids have hit and kicked her, pulled her hair and won’t sit with her at lunch.

COUNTRY'S OLDEST WWII VET GETS SURPRISE RIDE ON PRIVATE JET AHEAD OF 112TH BIRTHDAY

The bullying has gotten so bad, kids have even threatened Slater’s life. “They threaten to kill me and tell me to kill myself,” another sign reads.

Since posting, Slater’s video was flagged by another Facebook user and her account was shut down, according to her mom, Jenn. But before it was removed, the video had over 160,000 likes and thousands of shares, ABC News reports.

Jenn has since reposted her daughter’s video, which has also received a large amount of views, likes and shares. It's become so popular it caught the attention of Hugh Jackman, who shared it on his own page.

‪”Hi Cassidy .... I’m Hugh. I want you to know you’re loved, special & smart. You’re strong, funny & beautiful both inside and out. BULLYING IS NOT OK. Please never stop asking for help. You will find it from people and places you never thought possible. I’m your friend,” he wrote.

Slater’s dad, James Warner, told ABC News he didn’t know how bad the bullying had gotten until he saw his daughter’s video. "It just devastated me," Warner said. "I don't know how to explain how it made me feel...even talking about it I get choked up."

After the video gained popularity, Warner met with the principal of his daughter’s school as well as the Scranton School District superintendent to discuss ways to stop the bullying, ABC News reports.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Slater, who’s been getting positive comments from people all over the world, ended her video with an important message. “Stop bullying! Not just for me for other kids [too]. Please share my story!” Slater’s last sign reads.Hungry customers began calling Bull City Burger and Brewery in Durham, North Carolina, last month asking for its famous tarantula burgers.

The restaurant has been serving the eight-legged dish for the past three years during "Exotic Meat Month" — and this year will be no different.

Seth Gross, owner of Bull City Burger and Brewery, began introducing exotic food, including elk, crickets and chocolate-covered bugs, to the menu about seven years ago.

'BOXED BEER' COULD BE THE NEW DRINKING TREND

"He was just looking at what kind of food trends are out there and how people in other parts of the world eat — how they get their protein," Megan Cindrich, self-described "media maven" at Bull City Burger and Brewery, told Fox News. "He thought, 'Why not have the tarantula?'"

Thus, three years ago, the "Tarantula Challenge" was born.

Throughout the month of April, "adventurous" customers can enter a raffle to eat the unique burger with a side of "dirty fries" for $30. Once your name is picked, you have 48 hours to respond and arrange a date and time to come in.

"Should you be unable to call within the two-day period to claim your tarantula, it will be returned to the spider burrow and raffled off to another lucky winner," rules on the restaurant's website read.

Anyone who completes the challenge is given a free T-shirt with the restaurant's logo on it.

"There's no age limit, so it's really for an adventurous kid that likes to try new things — like kids that are eating spiders or ants already," Cindrich said.

The exclusive beef burger is topped with gruyere cheese, oven-roasted tarantula and spicy chili sauce. The tarantulas are "free-ranged" and certified edible, Cindrich explained.

Everyone has a unique way of consuming the large burger.

"One person took the tarantula off the burger, dipped it in ketchup and just popped it in there," Cindrich said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

The tarantula burger tastes like a crustacean, Cindrich described. It's crablike — salty but bitter, though the chili sauce adds a bit of heat to it.

The "Tarantula Challenge" will continue through the end of the month. So far six people have participated, with several more scheduled to come in.A Navy SEAL futuristic, ultra-fast, wave piercing, attack craft is breaking ground to help prepare for future wars.

It's stealthy, ultra-fast and it can go places other crafts can't. In the nation’s vast fleet, those lucky enough to spot this craft often describe it as the most remarkable looking vessel in the Navy.

Since its debut, this mysterious vessel rapidly became dubbed a “batmobile” or a “bat boat” on water.

NEW FOAM ARMOR FOR TANKS CAN PULVERIZE ENEMIES

This week, the SEAL craft with its utterly unique look was turning heads as it traveled inland along the Potomac River. With talk of potential war in Syria dominating headlines, speculation was rampant. What was this mystery boat? Was it heading to the nation’s capital? If so, why?

So what is this mysterious, stealthy boat?

It’s the M80 Stiletto made by Knight & Carver. Stiletto was created to surpass the tough requirements of U.S. special operations forces. The Navy SEALs have been using this remarkable craft for a wide range of applications.

The Stiletto was, in fact, quietly and discreetly making its way from its home with the Navy SEALs at Little Creek Base in Virginia to National Harbor by Washington, D.C.

It has made a guest appearance at the Sea, Air and Space where the heaviest hitters in this arena converge every year. At this annual event, Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard all have an opportunity to see and hear more about the very latest advances for future combat.

MARINES' ULTRA-POWERFUL HEAVILY-ARMED MEGA-DRONE WILL DEVASTATE ENEMIES OF THE US

Navy SEALs in Stilettos

The super-futuristic looks are not all that will surprise – this boat has another boat hidden inside.

After a stealthy approach to enemy shores, a ramp in the M80 Stiletto’s rear can lower to launch a Rigid Hull Inflatable Boat (RHIB)loaded with 12 fierce and fearless Navy SEALs for rapid insertion into enemy territory.

V-hull craft, like Zodiac RHIB's, are often used by special operations teams to rapidly insert teams on missions.

PODCAST: HEAR HOW NAVY SEALS TRAIN FOR THEIR EXTREME MISSIONS WITH THIS SEAL EXPERT

Stiletto’s futuristic looks

Unlike the very common V-hull, the Stiletto uses an M-hull approach. Its unique looks are in part due to the M-hull design.

The Stiletto’s hull design lifts the craft out of the water and reduces four key things: acoustic signature, drag, wake and how the water pounds the hull.

The benefits for military applications are substantial.

V-hulls can often deliver rough rides for the teams onboard because of water conditions. The talent and experience of a Navy SEAL is irreplaceable so innovation that can reduce the toll on their bodies, like powerful waves smacking the craft, is vital.

The hull design also delivers a platform with enhanced stability for drones to take off and land.

AMAZING MILITARY ATVS ARMED WITH LASER WEAPONS WILL BLAST DRONES OUT OF THE SKY

Speed and access

The design is important for speed and access. Rather than traditional material used like steel, Stiletto uses carbon fiber. Its advanced materials are lighter weight and yield less drag – two factors that can further enhance speed.

At full speed, the Stiletto at 70 miles per hour, or 60 knots and can travel about 500 miles on one tank of gas.

The draft is very shallow, approximately two and a half feet. This means the Stiletto can access places others can't. The Stiletto can travel fast in shallow waters and even shallow reefs. It is well suited for those tough environments the Navy’s larger ships can not reach such as littoral and riverine areas.

How about open ocean? When you combine an M-hull with assault craft design that can hit high speeds and rocket through waves, then you get the Stiletto. The Stiletto can even handle 13-foot waves, no problem.

PODCAST: LEARN HOW TO THINK LIKE A SEAL TEAM 6 COMMANDER

Bat boat features?

This floating "batmobile" is loaded with futuristic features. In addition to the three crew, the Stiletto can carry 12 SEALs. It is nearly 90 feet long and about 40 feet wide. Inside, it can comfortably fit a RHIB that’s about 36-feet long.

The Stiletto can also carry some drones. The top of the craft doubles as a stable flight deck for drones. Both flying, water surface and underwater drones can also be deployed through the rear. The rear door allows for rapid, easy launch and recovery of RHIBs and drones.

In a way, the Stiletto can act sort of like a mother ship to RHIB's and drones. It could help insert SEAL team members and the RHIB.

As you’d expect from larger American war vessels, this M80 Stiletto may be far smaller but still has an “electronic keel.”

For running missions like a sort of floating, futuristic command center, it can have large flat screens displaying all necessary information about the battle space. Feeds from satellites, highly detailed maps, camera feeds from SEAL teams as they conduct a mission, video from drones flying above, sensor data from stealthy underwater drones investigating threats below and more can be merged into one complete picture.

How is it being used?

Beyond delivering SEALs, the M80 Stiletto has been used for a range of purposes from clearing mines hidden out in the water through to acting as a sort of mothership providing floating command and control.

It has also been used for counter-narcotics and even NASA has enlisted the futuristic SEAL craft to help retrieve a space vehicle that splashed down in the Atlantic.

Stiletto, however, from the beginning has primarily been a testing bed for other remarkable advances that could make a difference downrange. From the start, the M80 was created as a demonstrator. The craft regularly helps accelerate and fine tune innovations to get them out to warfighters more rapidly. In this way, it acts both a sort of springboard and lily pad moving breakthroughs out to war zones faster.

In spite of all its awesomeness, thus far the Stiletto has yet to shift into becoming a core, widely used craft for operations. The unique craft has instead been playing a key role in supporting innovation for the SEAL teams and the wider military.

Most experts place the M80 cost at a maximum of $10 million. The price tag for this futuristic Navy SEAL vessel is a teeny tiny fraction of the cost of other recent new ships.

Let’s hope its guest appearance this week inspires leadership to prioritize lean, smart innovation and investment for future combat space, air and sea needs.A Volvo SUV slammed into a bridge in Scotland on Thusday, but not because it was a low one.

The vehicle was being transported through Glasgow on the top of a car carrier when its driver apparently misjudged how much clearance there was and collided with the underside of the overpass.

The aftermath was captured on camera by a passing driver, who told SWNS she spotted another Volvo on the street next to the truck, suggesting the one still on the truck struck it like a billiard ball and knocked it off.

No one was injured in the wreck, which happened just down the road from a Volvo dealership.Wolferman’s gourmet bakery broke a Guinness World Record for creating the largest cinnamon bun, weighing in at an astounding 1,149 pounds, which exceeds the average weight of an adult moose. The previously held record amounted to only 609.

Wolferman’s gargantuan sweet treat — which was made at the Harry & David Corporate Campus in Medford, Oregon — stretches 9 feet long, but if someone were to unravel the dough, it would be nearly as long as the Seattle Space Needle is high. Local bakers who made the tremendous treat used specialized equipment and a custom-made 6-by-9-foot stainless steel pan to create and cook more than 800 pounds of cinnamon dough.

Of course, there are no conventional ovens big enough to fit this fella. The engineering and mechanical teams who built the 1,400-pound pan mounted powerful propane burners underneath to heat the ingredients. And that’s how a 1,149-pound cinnamon roll is born.

Wolferman’s will be selling slices of the behemoth bun for $2 per piece at the annual Pear Blossom Festival in Medford, where the company is headquartered. The celebration honors Rogue Valley’s artisan foods, flavors, and outstanding chefs. All profits made from the cinnamon roll will be donated to the Teresa McCormick Center, a local community resource dedicated to providing education, assistance, and connection for those in need.

To celebrate the Guinness World Record, Wolferman’s is also offering a limited-edition 5-pound version of its colossal confection. The $50 monster is made with 80 ounces of dough, cinnamon sugar, and enough cream cheese frosting to fill the bellies of 40 guests.

This story originally appeared in The Daily Meal.American steel prices have skyrocketed since President Donald Trump imposed steel tariffs in early March, an unintended consequence for some U.S. companies, which are now paying almost double what they once did for the metal.

Continue Reading Below

Howard Steel, a Charlotte-based company that manufactures gas lines, structural steel and equipment for job sites, used to pay about 38 cents for a pound of raw materials from domestic steel producers.

Now, thanks to the tariffs, the company pays about 68 cents per pound for the same material, Howard Steel owner James Howard told FOX Business’ Liz Claman during an interview on Friday.

“As soon as they even talked about a tariff, we were getting price increases, and they were rapidly going up,” Howard said. “What you bought one day, three days later, even that price had gone up. There was nothing consistent. We still haven’t reached the apex, and I don’t know where it’s at.”

Trump argued the tariffs -- 25% on steel and 10% on aluminum -- were intended to protect U.S. industries from unfair competition and to bolster national security, one of his main promises during the 2016 presidential campaign.

Advertisement

Critics, however, warn that tariffs will raise the cost of steel and aluminum and make products such as automobiles and canned beer more expensive.

The tariffs are likely to keep driving up domestic metal prices, which have already been on the rise since the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2017. According to a report in Reuters, U.S. steel mills typically adjust prices once a year. In 2018, they’ve already adjusted the price four times.

“The way I feel about it, in theory it’s a good idea,” Howard said. “But I hate to say this, sometimes we can be our own worst enemy, and there’s a little bit of greed that goes through there. Anytime you get these price increases, and the orders are still coming in, well they’re just going to give you another price increase.”Kanye West is writing a philosophy book called “Break the Simulation.”

He reveals in a conversation with international interior design guru Axel Vervoordt in the Hollywood Reporter: “I’ve got this philosophy — or let’s say it’s just a concept, because sometimes philosophy sounds too heavy-handed. I’ve got a concept about photographs, and I’m on the fence about photographs — about human beings being obsessed with photographs — because it takes you out of the now and transports you into the past or transports you into the future.”

He also says he views his wife, Kim Kardashian, “as a Marie Antoinette of our time.”

This story originally appeared in the New York Post.Shia LaBeouf is back and opening up about something very personal.

During an interview with Jimmy Kimmel on Thursday night, the “Borg vs. McEnroe” star talked about one of his art projects in Finland, where he spent a month isolated in a cabin, communicating only via text to visitors at a Helsinki museum. At some point during the trip, the 31-year-old actor was naked around other people.

“For a person who’s not extremely well-endowed, who’s kinda insecure about my own junk, there’s something about sitting naked with a Sami native in a hut getting warm right away before you say ‘hello,'” he laughed.

LaBeouf added, “That kinda thing is a very uncomfortable thing, but in Finland it’s so culturally normal. Here it’s not normal. Guys sit with their boxers on.”

Elsewhere in the interview, the actor, who was arrested in Georgia in 2017, also revealed he recently got a French bulldog with his wife, Mia Goth.

“He’s a very interesting dog,” LaBeouf said. “I don’t know if he’s emotional or whatever, but he likes to eat his own doo-doo.”

LaBeouf plays tennis star John McEnroe in his new movie, “Borg vs. McEnroe,” which takes place during the 1980 Wimbledon championship.

This story originally appeared in the New York Post.Ryan Murphy is throwing a black-tie engagement party for Gwyneth Paltrow and Brad Falchuck this weekend, Page Six has exclusively learned.

The dress code had some showbiz insiders buzzing that the event could be a surprise wedding. We hear that 400 friends, family and Hollywood A-listers are expected.

Valentino fashion fixture Giancarlo Giammetti sparked speculation of the secret nuptials when he posted an image of the couple on Instagram on Friday and wrote: “These two beauties inside and out get engaged tomorrow!!! All my best wishes my dear @gwynethpaltrowand @bradfalchuk love you and miss not to be there with you!!!”

Comments back included: “I think she was keeping this a secret lol” and, “Does he mean they get married?”

But we’ve also heard rumors Paltrow and Falchuck will actually walk down the aisle later this year in the Hamptons.

Either way, Murphy — who will host the shindig with husband David Miller — has reason to celebrate these days himself, and certainly has the cash to splash out on a party worthy of Goop guru Gwyneth: He just signed a deal with Netflix that’s reportedly worth up to $300 million. Falchuck and Murphy together created hit series “Glee” and “American Horror Story,” and are reportedly behind upcoming Netflix series “The Politician” with no less than Barbra Streisand, Paltrow and Broadway sensation Ben Platt in talks to star.

Modal TriggerGwyneth Paltrow wears a floral jumpsuit during her bachelorette party in Mexico.Clasos.com.mx / Splash News

Paltrow will be arriving fresh from a VIP bachelorette party in Cabo, Mexico, with pals including designer Stella McCartney and Cameron Diaz. Page Six exclusively reported on the girls trip this week, before Paltrow was seen headed to a private jet to depart for female festivities.

Since Paltrow eloped with husband No. 1, Coldplay rocker Chris Martin, she’s treating this wedding as her first and is pulling out all the traditional stops. She told People after announcing her engagement in her own Goop magazine’s “Sex & Love” issue: “I’ve never had a wedding before… So even though I’m 45, I sort of feel like a 21-year-old.” She added: “It’s kind of fun to talk about with my girlfriends. They send me pictures of dresses — they’re as excited about it as I am.”

For her Mexico bachelorette trip, sources told us that pal Diaz booked a private jet for a dozen guests to fly down.

Paltrow’s famous friends include Reese Witherspoon, Drew Barrymore, Beyoncé and Kate Hudson.

This story originally appeared in the New York Post.It doesn’t take much to create a social media frenzy.

Brian Williams, the former host "NBC Nightly News" and now host of MSNBC’s “The 11th Hour With Brian Williams,” was trending on Twitter early Saturday after mistakenly referring to President Trump as "President Obama."

Williams' report was about the U.S. announcement that it would strike against Syria in response to an alleged chemical attack last week.

“It all started, nine o’clock Eastern time, with about a five-minute address by President Obama,” Wiliams said, matter-of-factly to the camera. “Here’s a portion of that.”

The newsman, who lost his coveted network anchor chair in 2015 after being suspended for misrepresenting himself when he claimed his helicopter was hit by enemy fire during the Iraq War, was lambasted on social media for Friday night’s flub.

Williams reportedly corrected his error, but social media had a field day.

“Honestly, I can understand Brian Williams confusion. Bombing Syria is totally something President Obama would have done too,” one person tweeted.If there is one thing you can count on in your life, it’s that your path will not always be easy.

It happens to all of us sometimes. Everything seems to be going well for you, and then suddenly a turn of events brings discouragement and frustration, and you feel like you just want to give up.

Maybe you’ve racked up so many bad decisions that you’ve almost put any kind of happiness out of reach. You might feel as though you are at the end of your rope, just hanging on for dear life. Or it seems like after a good start you are now running dead last in the race of life, and the finish line looks so far away that you might wonder if you can make it at all.

Our lives are filled with setbacks – those times when things just aren’t going our way, when victory seems out of our grasp, when happiness and contentment seem downright impossible. Occasional setbacks are probably unavoidable – part of the struggle of living in a fallen world. Other setbacks are due to our own sin and failures, or circumstances outside our control. But God has an answer for our every setback; he wants to orchestrate a comeback in our lives.

I know because I’ve been there. I can relate.

It’s a miracle that I am where I am today, the pastor of a large church in Dallas who regularly speaks in front of large groups of people. Let me tell you something I don’t talk about very often. Maybe you’ll find it encouraging.

When I was younger, I had a terrible problem with stuttering. It was hard to get through a sentence without hesitation and a bunch of distracting little fillers, like “…umm…” and “…er…” For years, just getting a complete sentence out of my mouth on the first try was nearly impossible.

Soon after my conversion I knew I wanted to be a speaker who would share about Christ to a room full of listeners. But who would have the patience to listen through all my stuttering?

My parents and doctors didn’t know why I stuttered, and they didn’t know how to help me. I couldn’t express my thoughts clearly, and it looked like I might have to give up my dreams of becoming a speaker.

Comebacks don’t seem likely when your back is up against the wall and your hope is depleted. But if you will stay the course, you will discover God’s power to reverse the irreversible in your life.

But God, in his wisdom, had chosen to use me -- even as a broken mouthpiece for him. I wouldn’t give up even though the circumstances were lined up against me. I was tempted to let go of my dream, but instead I held on to God.

My comeback didn’t happen overnight. I had to work, I had to practice, I had to pray, and I had to get some help from trained speech therapists.

And God gave me a comeback. Today I speak in front of people all the time. Every Sunday, I preach two sermons, each nearly an hour in length, to thousands of people. And I regularly travel around the country for speaking engagements. I’ve spoken in front of crowds as large as a million people. I never hesitate to say yes to an opportunity to share my faith in front of an audience.

Me, the kid who couldn’t speak a single sentence with clarity or confidence due to my stuttering. Some would have counted me out, but God never did. And I never gave up because it wasn’t easy.

I could tell you a lot of other stories about how God has provided comebacks in my life, such as when it seemed academically and financially impossible for me to go to seminary. None of the circumstances were in my favor, and I was sometimes tempted to quit trying. I didn’t have the money and I didn’t have the grades. And the school I wanted to attend was one that rarely admitted African-Americans at that time.

It would have been easy to give up and lower my goals. But God provided a comeback. Though I was only accepted on probation, I worked hard, and with God’s help I turned around my academic record. I eventually graduated with honors and became the first African-American to graduate from Dallas Theological Seminary with an earned doctoral degree.

Comebacks don’t seem likely when your back is up against the wall and your hope is depleted. But if you will stay the course, you will discover God’s power to reverse the irreversible in your life. Look to him always, honor him first, and then watch him blow your mind.

Adapted from "Your Comeback." Copyright © 2018 by Tony Evans. Published by Harvest House Publishers, Eugene, Oregon 97408. www.harvesthousepublishers.com. Used by Permission.A plus-size blogger says she was told to “cover up” at the Las Vegas hotel where she was doing a photo shoot in a bikini.

Anna O’Brien, who runs the fashion and lifestyle blog Glitter and Lazers, posted about her experience on Instagram along with the photo she took in the glamorous lobby during her shoot.

SURGEON SPECIALIZING IN 'DESIGNER NIPPLES' SAYS PATIENTS WANT THE KENDALL JENNER LOOK

O’Brien said she found it “ironic” that of all the places around the world she’s taken similar photos, it was in Las Vegas where someone made a comment, which she believes had to do with her size.

“Sure, thin girls in thongs and pasties are A OK but a plus girl in a full coverage suit, trying to take an epic editorial shot - now that’s just too much,” she wrote on Wednesday.

A post shared by Glitter (@glitterandlazers) on Apr 5, 2018 at 3:59pm PDT

The blogger, who did not disclose the name of the hotel, said she was granted permission to do her photo shoot on the property. “I asked to shoot swimsuits with a professional photographer and included my media kit,” O’Brien told Yahoo Lifestyle. “I received a reply stating that I was welcome to shoot anywhere in the hotel except the casino floor, provided I had no large equipment.”

But O’Brien said that despite getting approval in advance, the security guards seemed to have a problem with it. About five minutes after she started shooting in the lobby, wearing a snake skin two-piece, the guard approached her with his objections. “He told me to cover up, that I needed to put clothes on because I wasn’t allowed to be in a swimsuit,” she told Yahoo. “I tried talking to him but he wouldn’t listen.”

A post shared by Glitter (@glitterandlazers) on Mar 20, 2018 at 8:37am PDT

Determined to finish her shoot, O’Brien decided to try again about an hour later, this time wearing a one-piece swimsuit. “We were shooting in a different part of the lobby and another guard approached us and told us to stop,” she said. “I showed him the emails from the PR team but it didn’t make a difference.”

O’Brien told Yahoo she didn’t like that the security guard wouldn’t believe her when she said she had permission to be there, and she feels her size played a role in the way she was treated.

A post shared by Glitter (@glitterandlazers) on Jan 16, 2018 at 9:23am PST

“Other women were walking around with as much coverage as me and no one said anything to them. I don’t want to think the worst of people but in cases like these, I can’t help but wonder,” she said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

The blogger finished her Instagram post with a body positive message. “We will be seen. We’re not hiding anymore. And we’re going to wear whatever we want, wherever we want. Not just in Vegas. EVERYWHERE.”Tesla CEO Elon Musk confirmed on Friday that the electric car maker won’t need to raise cash to fund production of the Model 3, throwing cold water on a downbeat report.

Continue Reading Below

In an overnight missive on Twitter, Musk responded to a story from The Economist, saying there will be “no need” for Tesla to seek outside funds, adding that Tesla will record a profit and positive cash flow in the third and fourth quarters of this year.

Musk’s forecast is consistent with Tesla’s most recent financial guidance, which said quarterly operating income “should turn sustainably positive at some point in 2018.” Last week, Tesla said it would see strong positive operating cash flow in the third quarter. The company also continues to target a weekly production rate of 5,000 Model 3 sedans by the end of the second quarter, despite starting the quarter at a rate of 2,000 vehicles.

Tesla shares rose 2.1% in Friday trading.

Advertisement

The tweet from The Economist cited a report from investment bank Jefferies, whose analysts predict that Tesla will need to raise an additional $2.5 billion to $3 billion in capital this year.

Musk also responded to an analyst report from Goldman Sachs this week. After Goldman Sachs cut its price target for Tesla’s stock, Musk wrote on Twitter, “Place your bets.” Like Jefferies, Goldman Sachs floated the possibility that Tesla will seek to raise money to support new capacity and product expansion, although Tesla has said it won’t require extra cash to fund the Model 3A Florida man was shocked to discover a criminal on-the-run sought sanctuary in his closet while fleeing cops.

Herman Jackson, 87, of Merritt Island, Fla., said he was taking a nap Thursday when he heard a noise coming from his sliding doors. The veteran woke up from his nap to discover Alexander Koretsky standing in his home.

“I looked up and there he was standing in my living room!” Jackson told FOX 35 Orlando.

WOMAN, WANTED IN HUSBAND’S DEATH, KILLS FLORIDA WOMAN TO STEAL HER IDENTITY, POLICE SAY

Jackson said the fugitive attempted to explain why he was there; he needed a glass of water. The homeowner said Koretsky snatched a water bottle and fled.

The veteran said he called the cops to report the strange encounter. When Jackson went to his closet he found a lot of his clothes on the floor. It appeared Koretsky was looking for an outfit change.

“Everything was torn-up,” Jackson said, “And a lot of it on the floor, like he was trying to find something to change into, I don't know.”

FLORIDA MAN’S OWN DASHBOARD CAMERA LANDS HIM IN JAIL

Police were able to track down Koretsky soon after and discovered the fugitive and his girlfriend, Shelby Adams, 26, were on the run in a stolen vehicle. The couple each have a long arrest history.

Jackson said he’s kicking himself for not locking the doors at the time of the incident but will remember from now on.

“I was always forgetting the key,” Jackson explained, “I'd have to come around and I'd have to come around back and get in.”The teenager tragically killed Tuesday after he was crushed to death by a minivan seat was remembered by his family as being “funny, smart and positive.”

Kyle Plush, 16, of Cincinnati, Ohio, called 911 at least twice Tuesday afternoon while he was strapped in the 2004 Honda Odyssey minivan outside Seven Hills School in Madisonville. The teenager was found unresponsive in the minivan hours later by a family member.

Plush’s parents, Ron and Jill, released a statement regarding their son Friday night. The parents called him “unforgettable” and asked for privacy as they said their goodbyes to the teen.

“We would like to share a few words about our remarkable son. Kyle embraced life with a passion far beyond his years,” the family said. “We thank God for sharing him with us for over 16 years but we so desperately wish he was here today.”

They added: “Anyone who ever encountered Kyle knows he lit up a room with his larger than life, funny, smart and positive personality with inclusion of all. His friends know him as a leader with incredible potential that kept them laughing with his wit and innovative mind. He is unforgettable and we, as a family, will make sure he is never forgotten.”

911 DISPATCHER WHO ANSWERED CALL FROM BOY CRUSHED BY MINIVAN SEAT COMPLAINED ABOUT JOB DAYS BEFORE INCIDENT

During Plush’s first phone call to 911, he told the dispatcher to tell his mom he loved her if he died.

“I’m going to die here,” the teenager told the dispatcher. “I probably don’t have much time left. Tell my mom I love her if I die.”

Plush suffocated after he became trapped under the third-row seat that flipped and pinned him while he was trying to reach his tennis equipment. The teenager told 911 operators where he was located but authorities were not able to find him. Police said Amber Smith, the 911 operator who answered Plush’s second call, failed to relay information to the additional officers who were at the scene.

During the call, Plush explained to Smith the call was not a joke.

BOY, 16, DIES AFTER BEING CRUSHED BY MINIVAN SEAT IN SCHOOL PARKING LOT DESPITE 2 CALLS TO 911

"I am trapped inside my gold Honda Odyssey van in the parking lot of the Seven Hills...Send officers immediately," Plush pleaded. "I’m almost dead.”

Smith has been placed on administrative leave pending an investigation. She has been a 911 operator for four years. FOX 19 Now reported Smith was set to return from administrative leave next week. She told supervisors her computer froze and she was unable to put information into the system.

Police are investigating why it so long for somebody to find the teen despite Plush giving officials a detailed location of the van.

Cincinnati.com reported the 911 center has had problems regarding staffing, training and technology. The city’s 911 center has had five directors in the past four years and its budget was cut $400,000 since 2016. Records showed the center needed 17 dispatchers and 15 operators, the paper reported.

Fox News' Madeline Fish contributed to this report.Tens of thousands of people sang, cheered and cried as the flag-draped casket of anti-apartheid activist Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was escorted from her official funeral on Saturday, after supporters defended her complex legacy with poetry and anger.

Thunder rumbled and it began to rain as the casket left the 40,000-seat stadium — a blessing, witnesses said.

Heads of state joined the five-hour celebration of the powerful figure who will be buried as a national hero following lively debate over how she should be remembered after her death on April 2 at age 81.

Often called the "Mother of the Nation" and "Mama Winnie," Madikizela-Mandela fought to keep South Africa's anti-apartheid struggle in the international spotlight while her husband, Nelson Mandela, was imprisoned.

"Long before it was fashionable to call for Nelson Mandela's release from Robben Island, it was my mother who kept his memory alive," elder daughter Zenani Mandela-Dlamini said as the crowd erupted in cheers.

Many South Africans have stood up for Madikizela-Mandela's memory against critics who characterized her as a problematic figure who was implicated in political violence after she returned from years of banishment in a rural town.

"Proud, defiant, articulate, she exposed the lie of apartheid," President Cyril Ramaphosa said during his tribute. "Loudly and without apology, she spoke truth to power."

He recited Maya Angelou's poem "Still I Rise."

And as the casket left the stadium, another speaker read out Alice Walker's poem, "Winnie Mandela We Love You."

Since her death, supporters have visited Madikizela-Mandela's family home in Soweto, the Johannesburg township where she lived, and condolences have poured in from around the world in remembrance of one of the 20th century's most prominent political activists.

Civil rights leader Jesse Jackson, who attended the funeral, said Friday that Madikizela-Mandela was responsible for making the anti-apartheid movement "a global struggle."

Many memorializing Madikizela-Mandela recognized her as a political force in her own right.

"In apartheid South Africa, the combination of patriarchy and racism together meant that black women confronted enormous obstacles from the cradle to the grave, making her own achievements all the more exceptional," U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said Friday at a memorial in New York, not mentioning Nelson Mandela at all.

The young Madikizela-Mandela grew up in what is now Eastern Cape province and came to Johannesburg as the city's first black female social worker. Not long after, she met African National Congress activist Mandela and the couple married in 1958, forming one of the most storied unions of the century.

After Mandela was imprisoned, Madikizela-Mandela embraced her own leadership in the freedom struggle with steely determination and at great personal sacrifice.

For years, she was routinely harassed by apartheid-state security forces, imprisoned and tortured. In 1977, she was banished to a remote town.

It took a toll. When Madikizela-Mandela returned from exile she became involved with a group of young men known as the Mandela United Football Club. The men were accused of the disappearances and killings of at least 18 boys and young men and the leader was convicted of killing a 14-year-old, nicknamed "Stompie," accused of being a police informer.

In 1991, a court found Madikizela-Mandela guilty of the boy's kidnapping and assault and sentenced her to six years in jail. She appealed and was found guilty of being an accessory in the assault, and the sentence was reduced to a fine and suspended prison term. Madikizela-Mandela denied knowledge of any killings.

Mandela divorced her in 1996, claiming infidelity and saying that after his release from prison, his wife made him "the loneliest man."

Though she fought fiercely for democracy, Madikizela-Mandela floundered in a political career after the first free elections in 1994. Mandela, South Africa's first black president, fired her as one of his deputy ministers. Her stints as a lawmaker, a post she held until her death, were lackluster.

Mandela-Dlamini, her elder daughter, accused the media of being complicit in a long "smear campaign" against her mother.

"Praising her now that she's gone shows what hypocrites you are," she said during her speech. "It's become clear that South Africa, and indeed the world, holds men and women to different standards of morality."

Ramaphosa said the traumas that Madikizela-Mandela endured as a target of the powerful apartheid state inflicted "deep wounds" that never healed — and went largely ignored by many peers.

"She bore witness to our suffering . We did not do the same for her," he said. "Today is a moment to heal those wounds. Today is a time for healing as we put Mama Winnie to rest."If there's one thing we learned from the past week's marathon congressional inquisition of Facebook Inc. Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, it's this: The inner workings of Facebook's data-harvesting behemoth are so byzantine, that in some ways Mr. Zuckerberg is just as confused as the rest of us about how it all works.

Continue Reading Below

In his testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook doesn't store a history of websites its users have visited.

Mr. Zuckerberg later corrected himself, saying Facebook does in fact store a list of visited websites that include Facebook's tracking code. He added that the list is held temporarily before being converted into "a set of ad interests."

When testifying before the Senate Tuesday, Mr. Zuckerberg said, "I think everyone should have control over how their information is used." He also said, "You have full access to understand all -- every piece of information that Facebook might know about you -- and you can get rid of all of it."

Not exactly. There are important classes of information Facebook collects on us that we can't control. We don't get to "opt in" or remove every specific piece. Often, we aren't even informed of their existence -- except in the abstract -- and we aren't shown how the social network uses this harvested information.

What else Facebook knows

Advertisement

The website log is a good example, in part because of its sheer mass. The browsing histories of hundreds of millions -- possibly billions -- of people are gathered by a variety of advertising trackers, which Facebook has been offering to web publishers ever since it introduced the "Like" button in 2009. They've become, as predicted, a nearly web-wide system for tracking all users -- even when you don't click the button.

When you request and download your data from Facebook -- a feature Mr. Zuckerberg repeatedly referred to in answers to questions about control -- this stored browsing history isn't there.

That is reasonable, says Antonio Garcia-Martinez, a former Facebook ad-targeting product manager and current Facebook gadfly. Facebook targets ads based on an abstraction derived from your browsing history -- -- an abstraction such as your interest in golf. When you download your data, Facebook tells you what it thinks your interests are but doesn't provide the specific evidence for why it thinks that.

"If you downloaded this file [of sites Facebook knows you visited], it would look like a quarter to half your browsing history," Mr. Garcia-Martinez adds.

Another reason Facebook doesn't give you this data: The company claims recovering it from its databases is difficult. In one case, it took Facebook 106 days to deliver to a Belgian mathematician, Paul-Olivier Dehaye, all the data the company had gathered on him through its most common tracking system. Facebook doesn't say how long it stores this information.

When you opt out of interest-based ads, the system that uses your browsing history to target you, Facebook continues tracking you anyway. It just no longer uses the data to show you ads.

There is more data Facebook collects that it doesn't explain. It encourages users to upload their phone contacts, including names, phone numbers and email addresses. Facebook never discloses if such personal information about you has been uploaded by other users from their contact lists, how many times that might have happened or who might have uploaded it.

This data enables Facebook not only to keep track of active users across its multiple products, but also to fill in the missing links. If three people named Smith all upload contact info for the same fourth Smith, chances are this person is related. Facebook now knows that person exists, even if he or she has never been on Facebook. And of course, people without Facebook accounts certainly can't see what information the company has in these so-called shadow profiles.

"In general, we collect data on people who have not signed up for Facebook for security purposes," Mr. Zuckerberg told Congress Wednesday.

There's also a form of location data you can't control unless you delete your whole account. This isn't the app's easy-to-turn-off GPS tracking. It's the string of IP addresses, a form of device identification on the internet, that can show where your computer or phone is each time it connects to Facebook.

Location is a powerful signal for Facebook, allowing it to infer how you are connected to other people, even if you don't identify them as family members, co-workers or lovers. Facebook says it uses your IP address to target ads when you are near a specific place, but as you can see in your downloaded Facebook data, the log of stored IP addresses can go back years.

The new normal?

All this data, plus the elements Facebook lets you control, can potentially reveal everything from your wealth to whether you are depressed.

Facebook, Alphabet Inc.'s Google and a host of smaller companies that compete with and support the giants in the digital ad space have become addicted to the kind of information that helps microtarget ads.

That level of precision is at the heart of Facebook's recent troubles: Just because Facebook uses it to accomplish a seemingly innocent task -- in Mr. Zuckerberg's words, making ad "experiences better, and more relevant" -- doesn't mean we shouldn't be worried.

Two bills were proposed in the Senate the day after Mr. Zuckerberg's testimony, one of them bipartisan. Both would create new penalties for data breaches and would require Facebook and the rest of the ad-tracking industry to be more transparent and allow people to opt out easily. Facebook has withdrawn its opposition to the California Consumer Privacy Act, a November ballot measure that includes many of the same provisions. As of May 25, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation will force all advertisers to proactively ask for permission to capture or use any personal data.

Regulators the world over are coming to similar conclusions: Our personal data has become too sensitive -- and too lucrative -- to be left without restraints in the hands of self-interested corporations.The Oklahoma City Thunder slammed a broadcaster Thursday for using the "offensive" term “cotton-picking” to describe star player Russell Westbrook’s play in the team’s regular season finale.

The Thunder said in a statement the phrase “out of his cotton-picking mind,” used by play-by-play announcer Brian Davis, was “highly inappropriate and offensive,” according to TMZ Sports.

“We think obviously the use of that term was offensive and inappropriate, and I expressed that to Brian last night,” Thunder Vice President of Broadcasting Dan Mahoney told The Norman Transcript. "Brian assures me that it was not meant in any derogatory way, and he apologizes. But again, we feel strongly that it's inappropriate and offensive.”

Davis used the term to describe Westbrook’s play in the second quarter, while the superstar point guard was on his way to becoming the first NBA player to average a triple-double in two seasons.

Did he just say “Westbrook is out of his cotton-picking mind”?..... pic.twitter.com/fvPZ5cTkjx — Mark Robinson (@MarkyRobs) April 12, 2018

The expression “out of his cotton-picking mind” is generally another way to say "crazy" or "unbelievable." But the phrase also has racial overtones, given that many slaves were forced to literally pick cotton.

Davis, who has done play-by-play for the Thunder on Fox Sports Oklahoma for eight seasons, didn’t appear to use the phrase maliciously, but came under fire for using it anyway.

Mahoney told The Norman Transcript he was unsure whether Davis would apologize for the comment the next time he was behind the mic.

"That's really up to Brian," he said. "Again, we've expressed to him strongly that it was offensive and inappropriate, and that's all we can do for right now."article

Three of America's biggest banks reported higher profits Friday, with a huge assist from the tax law passed late last year.

Continue Reading Below

JPMorgan reported a record quarterly profit, while Citigroup and Wells Fargo topped analyst expectations.

Banks are expected to be major beneficiaries of the tax overhaul, which sharply lowered corporate tax rates. Comparing each of the effective tax rates from last year to this year, the three Wall Street banks that reported earnings Friday appeared to have saved roughly $1.6 billion altogether.

The first-quarter earnings season will give investors and the public their first good look into how President Trump's tax law is impacting Corporate America. Publicly traded banks are the first major industry to report their results each quarter.

Net income at JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest bank by assets and deposits, rose 35 percent to $8.71 billion. The result was primarily driven by two factors: higher interest rates, which have allowed banks such as JPMorgan to charge more for customers to borrow, and the lower corporate tax rate.

However, JPMorgan had to set aside more money to cover bad loans in its consumer bank, where delinquencies have been steadily edging higher. JPMorgan shares fell 2.7 percent, while shares of Wells Fargo slipped 3.4 percent and Citigroup shares dropped 1.6 percent.

Advertisement

While JPMorgan's pretax income rose by $2 billion in the quarter, the company said it effectively paid $240 million less in taxes compared to a year earlier. The bank paid an effective tax rate of 18.3 percent in the quarter, compared with a rate of 22.7 percent a year earlier. Before the changes to tax law, JPMorgan's effective tax rate averaged in the high 20-percent range.

JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon has been a big promoter of the tax overhaul, saying it would be good for businesses as well as average Americans. Soon after President Donald Trump signed the law into place, the bank announced higher salaries for most of its retail bank employees, and said it would open branches in a handful of new markets. It also announced an expansion of small business lending.

"The global economy continues to do well, and we remain optimistic about the positive impact of tax reform in the U.S. as business sentiment remains upbeat, and consumers benefit from job and wage growth," Dimon in a statement.

Other bank executives were just as optimistic when speaking about the tax law's impact. Citigroup Chief Financial Officer John Gerspach told reporters Friday that businesses had only begun taking advantage of the changes.

"I think the best is yet to come," he said.

Rising interest rates helped JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, but not Wells Fargo, which continues to struggle under the weight of several scandals and investigations. Wells disclosed as part of its earnings that they may have to pay as much as $1 billion to federal regulators to settle investigations being conducted by financial regulatory agencies.

The Federal Reserve has been steadily raising interest rates for more than two years. Net interest income at JPMorgan was $13.3 billion, up 10 percent from a year earlier. At Citigroup, net interest revenues were $16.33 billion, up 12 percent from a year earlier. Wells Fargo reported a slight decline in interest income.

JPMorgan's investment bank also had a solid quarter, helped by much more volatile and active markets last quarter. Net income in the investment bank was $3.97 billion, up from $3.24 billion a year earlier.

There were some concerns about JPMorgan's credit quality, however. The bank had to set aside more money to cover potentially bad loans, and the bank's total charge-off rate — the percentage of loans it expects are not likely to be repaid — climbed to 1.20 percent of all loans. That compares to 1.07 percent of loans in the second quarter of 2017.

Citi also had to add to its loan-loss reserves, and reported an 8 percent increase in its total credit losses in the quarter.

JPMorgan's quarterly revenue was $28.52 billion, up from $25.85 billion. On a per-share basis, JPMorgan earned $2.37 a share, up from $1.65 per share, beating analysts' forecasts.

Citigroup reported a profit of $4.62 billion, or $1.68 a share, compared with a profit of $4.09 billion, or $1.35 per share, in the same period a year earlier. The results beat analysts' forecasts for earnings of $1.61 a share, according to FactSet. It was the largest quarterly profit that Citi has reported since 2015.

Wells reported first-quarter earnings of $5.9 billion, or $1.12 per share, topping Wall Street's per-share expectations by 6 cents, according to a FactSet survey, That profit exceeds last year's $5.46 billion, or $1.03 per share, in profit.

Wells paid $1.37 billion in taxes in the first quarter, about 36 percent less than the $2.13 billion it paid last year.

___

Ken Sweet covers banks and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for The Associated Press. Follow him on Twitter at @kensweet.article

Bank stocks buckled on Friday, even after several reported fatter profits than analysts expected, and the sharp declines overshadowed gains elsewhere in the market to drag the S&P 500 lower.

Continue Reading Below

JPMorgan Chase and several other financial titans marked the unofficial start of the earnings reporting season, and expectations were high for them, as they are for most major companies. Wall Street is forecasting the strongest growth in seven years for S&P 500 companies, and the hope has been that healthy profit reports in coming weeks will steady the market following a rough couple of months.

But high expectations can be as much a burden as cause for optimism. JPMorgan Chase reported its biggest-ever profit and topped analysts' expectations. But investors were already anticipating the good news that it delivered, such as healthier trading revenue, and took note of things like an increase in charge-offs for credit cards. JPMorgan Chase's shares fell 2.7 percent to $110.30 to lop off most of the big gains it had made earlier in the week.

The S&P 500 fell 7.69 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,656.30. The loss pared the index's gain for the week to 2 percent.

The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 122.91, or 0.5 percent, to 24,360.14, and the Nasdaq composite lost 33.60, or 0.5 percent, to 7,106.65.

As a group, financial stocks in the S&P 500 fell 1.6 percent, more than double the loss for any of the other 10 sectors that make up the index.

Advertisement

PNC Financial Services Group had one of the biggest losses in the S&P 500 after reporting first-quarter results that fell short of some analysts' expectations. It dropped 4.1 percent to $145.46.

Wells Fargo fell 3.4 percent to $50.89, and Citigroup dropped 1.6 percent to $71.01 even though both reported profits that beat expectations. The possibility of a big settlement with federal regulators hung over Wells Fargo's results.

After weeks where fears about a possible trade war dominated the market, many analysts along Wall Street were expecting strong profit reports to divert investors' attention. Over the long term, stock prices tend to track the progress of corporate profits.

Expectations for profit growth this year may have climbed so high, particularly following Washington's recent overhaul of the tax code, that they may be setting the stage for future disappointment, said Matthew Watson, portfolio manager at James Investment Research.

"In the near term, it looks like companies are beating expectations in general," he said. "Our concern comes over the next 12 months."

Outside financial stocks, other areas of the market were stronger. Energy stocks in the S&P 500 jumped 1.1 percent after the price of oil continued its strong climb.

Benchmark U.S. crude oil added 32 cents to $67.39, its highest settlement price since 2014. Brent crude, the international standard, rose 56 cents to $72.58.

Alaska Air Group jumped to the biggest gain in the S&P 500 after it gave an updated forecast for first-quarter revenue trends that was better than what it had previously given. Shares rose 6.1 percent to $63.95.

Airline stocks have been strong after Delta Air Lines reported stronger-than-expected earnings on Thursday. Delta rose 2.8 percent over the last two days.

Broadcom had one of the biggest gains in the S&P 500 after it said it will repurchase up to $12 billion of its stock. By taking shares off the market, buybacks can result in higher earnings per share for companies. The technology company rose 3.1 percent to $246.94.

In the commodities market, gold rose $6.00 to settle at $1,347.90 per ounce, silver added 19 cents to $16.66 per ounce and copper rose a penny to $3.07 per pound.

Natural gas rose 5 cents to $2.74 per 1,000 cubic feet, heating oil gained 2 cents to $2.10 per gallon and wholesale gasoline added 1 cent to $2.07 per gallon.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury note slipped to 2.82 percent from 2.84 percent late Thursday.

The dollar rose to 107.41 Japanese yen from 107.23 yen late Thursday. The euro rose to $1.2334 from $1.2329, and the British pound rose to $1.4237 from $1.4225.

In European stock markets, France's CAC 40 edged up 0.1 percent, and Germany's DAX gained 0.2 percent. The FTSE 100 in London rose 0.1 percent.

Japan's Nikkei 225 rose 0.5 percent, South Korea's Kospi advanced 0.5 percent and Hong Kong's Hang Seng index edged down 0.1 percent.article

The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):

Continue Reading Below

4 p.m.

Major U.S. stocks closed lower, weighed down by declines in banks.

Several major banks reported profits that beat forecasts Friday, partly due to the new tax law and higher interest rates, but their stocks fell anyway because of concerns investors saw nestled in their financial reports.

Wells Fargo fell 3.4 percent and JPMorgan Chase lost 2.7 percent. Regional bank PNC Financial gave up 4.1 percent.

Energy stocks rose along with the price of oil. Marathon Oil jumped 3 percent.

Advertisement

The S&P 500 fell 7 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,656.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 122 points, or 0.5 percent, to 24,360. The Nasdaq composite declined 33 points, or 0.5 percent, to 7,106.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.82 percent.

___

11:45 a.m.

A sharp drop in bank stocks overshadowed gains elsewhere in midday trading on Wall Street.

Several major banks reported profits that beat forecasts Friday, partly due to the new tax law and higher interest rates, but their stocks fell anyway because of concerns investors saw nestled in their financial reports.

Wells Fargo fell 2.8 percent and JPMorgan Chase lost 2.2 percent. Regional bank PNC Financial lost 3.7 percent.

Energy stocks rose along with the price of oil. Marathon Oil jumped 3.3 percent.

The S&P 500 fell 4 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,659.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 78 points, or 0.3 percent, to 24,404. The Nasdaq composite declined 24 points, or 0.3 percent, to 7,116.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury fell to 2.83 percent.

___

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening higher on Wall Street as technology companies and retailers lead the market higher.

Apple and Home Depot each rose about 1 percent in early trading Friday.

Broadcom jumped 4 percent after announcing a $12 billion stock buyback.

Major U.S. banks were mixed after reporting big jumps in profits driven partly by the new tax law. JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup were little changed, while Wells Fargo fell 2 percent.

The S&P 500 rose 10 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,674.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 90 points, or 0.4 percent, to 24,576. The Nasdaq composite climbed 28 points, or 0.4 percent, to 7,168.

Bond prices didn't move much. The yield on the 10-year Treasury held steady at 2.84 percent.Stocks declined on Friday amid strong bank earnings that failed to impress investors, but the market secured weekly gains as Wall Street shook off concerns over U.S. trade.

Continue Reading Below

The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 122.81 points, or 0.5%, to 24,360.24. The S&P 500 fell about 7.69 points, or 0.3%, to 2,656.30. The Nasdaq Composite was down 33.6 points, or 0.47%, at 7,106.65.

The major indexes were up at least 1.8% for the week, driven by a rebound in technology stocks and a strong run for energy companies in reaction to higher oil prices. Investor optimism also got a boost from easing trade tensions between the U.S. and China and news that a missile strike on Syria wasn’t imminent.

Wells Fargo dropped more than 3% after confirming in its first-quarter results that regulators have offered a $1 billion fine to resolve auto insurance and mortgage lending abuses. It did not disclose whether it would agree to settle with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.

​JPMorgan Chase, the nation's biggest bank by assets, fell 2.7% even after saying that the tax overhaul signed by President Donald Trump helped its first-quarter earnings beat analysts’ forecast.

Advertisement

Bank shares led Friday’s sell-off, with the financial sector losing 1.6% on the day. Consumer discretionary stocks were down 0.6%.

Ticker Security Last Change %Chg JPM JP MORGAN CHASE & CO. 110.30 -3.07 -2.71% WFC WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 50.89 -1.81 -3.43% C CITIGROUP INC. 71.01 -1.12 -1.55% GE GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY 13.49 +0.31 +2.35%

The University of Michigan reported that consumer sentiment slipped in April to a three-month low on trade war fears. The survey reading came in at 97.8, down from 101.4 in March.

Other economic data published Friday morning included the Bureau of Labor Statistics' report on job openings, which were little changed at 6.1 million on the last business day of February.

Commodities were mixed on Friday, but gold settled higher for the second straight week. West Texas Intermediate crude continued to rise, gaining 32 cents to $67.39 a barrel.

The 10-year Treasury yield was trading around 2.82%, down from 2.83% on Thursday.

In corporate news, Zillow shares fell 6.5% after the real-estate listings company said it would start flipping houses in Las Vegas and Phoenix.

General Electric gained 2.5% ahead of its quarterly earnings report next week.