Former first lady Barbara Bush is in "failing health" and will not seek additional medical treatment after a series of recent hospitalizations, a family spokesman said Sunday.

The 92-year-old wife of former President George H.W. Bush will instead focus on comfort care, a family spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement.

“Following a recent series of hospitalizations, and after consulting her family and doctors, Mrs. Bush, now age 92, has decided not to seek additional medical treatment and will instead focus on comfort care. It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others,” the statement read.

“She is surrounded by a family she adores, and appreciates the many kind messages and especially the prayers she is receiving,” it continued.

McGrath did not elaborate on Bush’s health problems. For decades, she has been treated for Graves' disease, a thyroid condition.

Barbara Bush has been married to George H.W. Bush since 1945, when she was 19 and he was 20. They have six children, including former President George W. Bush.

The Bushes have been married longer than any presidential couple in American history and Barbara Bush is one of only two first ladies who was also the mother of a president. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams.



The former first lady wrote Smith College's alumnae magazine last month she's "still old and still in love with the man" she married in 1945, the Boston Globe reported.

“I have had great medical care and more operations than you would believe. I’m not sure God will recognize me; I have so many new body parts! Also, George Bush has given me the world. He is the best — thoughtful and loving,” she said.

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley tweeted Sunday that Barbara Bush is "a woman of great faith, great strength, and an unwavering love of country."

Former U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchinson, now the permanent U.S. representative to NATO, described Bush as "one of America's most-loved women," while "The View" co-host Meghan McCain called her "a woman of great strength, patriotism and an iconic first lady of our times who has touched and inspired countless lives."

George H.W. Bush, 94, also has had health issues in recent years.

In April 2017, he was released from a hospital in Houston after being treated for two weeks for a mild case of pneumonia and chronic bronchitis. Months earlier, he was a Houston's Methodist Hospital for 16 days, also for pneumonia.

The nation's 41s president also was hospitalized in 2015 in Maine, where he and his wife spend summers at their home in Kennebunkport, after falling at home and breaking a bone in his neck. He was hospitalized in Houston in December 2014 for about a week for shortness of breath and spent Christmas 2012 in intensive care for a bronchitis-related cough and other issues.

Bush, who served as president from 1989 to 1993, has a form of Parkinson's disease and uses a motorized scooter or a wheelchair for mobility. He also served as a congressman, CIA director and Ronald Reagan's vice president.

Barbara Pierce Bush was born in Rye, N.Y. Her father was the publisher of McCall's and Redbook magazines. She married at age 19 while George Bush was a young naval aviator. After World War II, the Bushes moved to Texas where he went into the oil business.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.President Trump is known for giving his political opponents and critics nicknames, especially on social media.

Read on for a list of Trump's most iconic nicknames.

Slippery James Comey

Trump dubbed "Slippery" Comey the “WORST” FBI Director in U.S. history while blasting Comey’s new book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership,” in a series of tweets. The new nickname seemed to be an update to the one Trump gave in March, when he called the former FBI director “Lying James Comey.”

“Slippery James Comey, a man who always ends up badly and out of whack (he is not smart!), will go down as the WORST FBI Director in history, by far!” Trump tweeted.

Trump fired Comey in May 2017, citing the ex-director's handling of the FBI’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email practices. Comey later said, and reiterated in his book, that Trump told him: “I need loyalty. I expect loyalty.” Comey said the exchange came during a Jan. 27, 2017 dinner.

The president has repeatedly denied asking Comey for personal loyalty.

“I hardly even knew this guy. Just another of his many lies. His ‘memos’ are self serving and FAKE!” Trump said.

Trump continued to call Comey a “slimeball” and suggested the former FBI director deserved jail time for mishandling the Clinton email probe.

Animal Assad

In the aftermath of a suspected chemical attack in Syria, Trump blasted Syrian President Bashar Assad and warned that those responsible would pay a “big price.” Trump also nicknamed the Syrian president “Animal Assad.”

“Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in Syria. Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world,” Trump alleged in a tweet. “President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad. Big price to pay. Open area immediately for medical help and verification. Another humanitarian disaster for no reason whatsoever. SICK!”

Trump also blamed former President Barack Obama’s foreign policy decisions for “Animal Assad.”

And in a later tweet, Trump warned Russia against shooting down any missiles the U.S. would fire at Syria in retaliation for the purported attack, saying the country “shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”

Little Rocket Man

Trump has never really had kind things to say about North Korea leader Kim Jong Un – referring to him on Twitter as a “maniac” a “whack job" and "rocket man" – which is a “President Trump original," White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders told Fox News.

Trump tried out the "rocket man" nickname at the 2017 United Nations General Assembly.

He's also tried out the moniker on Twitter.

"The Chinese Envoy, who just returned from North Korea, seems to have had no impact on Little Rocket Man. Hard to believe his people, and the military, put up with living in such horrible conditions. Russia and China condemned the launch," he tweeted.

In addition, Trump has called the North Korean leader a "sick puppy."

Lamb the Sham

Ahead of a tight special House election in Pennsylvania, Trump visited the Keystone state to stump for Republican Rick Saccone – and hit Democrat Conor Lamb.

Trump accused Lamb of saying “nice things” in order to get elected in “Trump country,” but promised those at a rally that the Democrat “is not going to vote for us” if elected. And the president dubbed the 33-year-old Marine “Lamb the Sham.”

“Lamb the Sham. Lamb the Sham. He is trying to act like a Republican. He won't give me one vote,” Trump said.

Trump also said he is “better looking” than Lamb.

Sloppy Steve

Steve Bannon used to be in the president’s good graces, but the pair has had a very public falling out. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist and ex-Breitbart executive, was quoted in a blistering tell-all book, painting the president’s son in a negative light.

Trump heavily rebuked Bannon in a public statement, saying Bannon “lost his mind” after he was “fired” from the White House.

“Steve was rarely in a one-on-one meeting with me and only pretends to have had influence to fool a few people with no access and no clue, whom he helped write phony books,” Trump said.

Ahead of the release of the controversial book by Michael Wolff, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” Trump slammed both the author and Bannon on social media – giving Bannon his nickname.

“Look at this guy’s past and watch what happens to him and Sloppy Steve,” Trump warned.

Trump reiterated the “Sloppy Steve” nickname in other tweets, including one which he praised the Mercer family – wealthy conservative mega-donors – for having “dropped the leaker known as Sloppy Steve Bannon.”

Pocahontas

The president reused one of his favorite nicknames for Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., while he honored Navajo code talkers at the White House in November. At the event – held to honor the Native Americans who used their native language during World Wars I and II to help the U.S. – Trump mocked Warren as “Pocahontas.”

Trump has often criticized Warren, specifically over her claim to be of Native American heritage.

“She’s got about as much Indian blood as I have. Her whole life was based on a fraud,” Trump told The New York Times in May 2016.

Warren’s potential Native American heritage was first questioned during her 2012 Senate run.

Trump also calls Warren “goofy.”

Dicky Durbin

Trump made waves when he referred to Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin, D-Ill., as “Dicky Durbin” online.

“Senator Dicky Durbin totally misrepresented what was said at the DACA meeting. Deals can’t get made when there is no trust! Durbin blew DACA and is hurting our military,” said Trump in a tweet.

Durbin was part of a group of lawmakers who visited Trump at the White House in January to discuss immigration reform. After reports surfaced that Trump referred to certain nations as “s---hole countries” at the bilateral meeting, Durbin accused the president of saying “things that were hate-filled, vile and racist.”

Trump has admitted to using “tough” language at the meeting but denied certain remarks attributed to him.

Sneaky Dianne Feinstein

A transcript of a Fusion GPS official's August interview with the Senate Judiciary Committee was unilaterally released by the committee’s ranking member, Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif.

The release of the bombshell interview drew ire from some Republicans, including the president and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa.

In a tweet following the release, Trump blasted the 84-year-old senator and called her “Sneaky Dianne Feinstein.”

“The fact that Sneaky Dianne Feinstein, who has on numerous occasions stated that collusion between Trump/Russia has not been found, would release testimony in such an underhanded and possibly illegal way, totally without authorization, is a disgrace,” Trump tweeted. “Must have tough Primary!”

Jeff Flakey

Like Trump and Sen. Bob Corker, Trump and Republican Sen. Jeff Flake have been feuding for quite some time. In announcing his retirement from the Senate, Flake slammed both the Republican Party and Trump.

Flake was also caught on a hot mic saying if the GOP “becomes the party of Roy Moore and Donald Trump, we’re toast.” That comment gave Trump the opportunity to dub the Arizona senator “Jeff Flakey.”

“Sen. Jeff Flake(y), who is unelectable in the Great State of Arizona (quit race, anemic polls) was caught (purposely) on ‘mike’ saying bad things about your favorite President. He’ll be a NO on tax cuts because his political career anyway is ‘toast,’” Trump tweeted.

Al 'Frankenstien'

After Sen. Al Franken, D-Minn., was accused of kissing and groping Los Angeles radio host Leeann Tweeden during a USO tour in 2006, Trump blasted the lawmaker on Twitter.

"The Al Frankenstien picture is really bad, speaks a thousand words. Where do his hands go in pictures 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6 while she sleeps?" Trump wrote, including an apparent misspelling of "Frankenstein." "And to think that just last week he was lecturing anyone who would listen about sexual harassment and respect for women. Lesley Stahl tape?"

Liddle' Bob Corker

The feud between Trump and Sen. Bob Corker has been going on for some time, but the Tennessee senator finally got a nickname.

“The Failing [New York Times] set Liddle’ Bob Corker up by recording his conversation. Was made to sound a fool, and that’s what I am dealing with!” Trump tweeted on Oct. 10.

Corker slammed Trump in an interview with the newspaper and said the president is so reckless that he might be “on the path to World War III.” A transcript from the interview revealed that Corker acknowledged the conversation was on the record.

Wacky Congresswoman Wilson

Trump and Rep. Frederica Wilson, D-Fla., became locked in a public feud involving a Gold Star family – earning the Florida congresswoman her nickname.

“The Fake News is going crazy with wacky Congresswoman Wilson (D), who was SECRETELY on a very personal call, and gave a total lie on content!” Trump tweeted.

Wilson accused Trump of making insensitive remarks to the pregnant widow of one of the four American soldiers killed during an attack in Niger. The White House, including chief of staff John Kelly, has ardently defended the president’s comments.

Jerry ‘Moonbeam’ Brown

Trump hasn't seen eye-to-eye with California Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, throughout much of his time in office – but the president was especially critical after Brown pardoned 56 convicted felons, including five ex-convicts facing deportation.

Trump blasted the pardoning on Twitter, calling the governor “Jerry ‘Moonbeam’ Brown.”

“Is this really what the great people of California want?” Trump said.

Trump can’t take full credit for Brown’s nickname. The “Moonbeam” moniker was given to the governor first in the 1970s by a columnist who said Brown was garnering the "moonbeam vote," or the younger, more idealistic voters in his gubernatorial campaign, according to The New York Times. The nickname continued as Brown pressed for California's space programs.

Crazy Joe Biden

It all started when former Vice President Joe Biden addressed an anti-sexual assault rally in Florida and cited lewd comments Trump made about women in the infamous “Access Hollywood” tape more than a decade ago.

Biden, who has crusaded against sexual assault and harassment, said, “If we were in high school, I’d take him behind the gym and beat the hell out of him.”

A few days later, Trump lashed out on Twitter, nicknaming the former senator “Crazy Joe Biden.”

“Crazy Joe Biden is trying to act like a tough guy. Actually, he is weak, both mentally and physically, and yet he threatens me, for the second time, with physical assault,” Trump said on March 22. “He doesn’t know me, but he would go down fast and hard, crying all the way. Don’t threaten people Joe!”

In the past, Trump has referred to Biden on social media as “our not very bright vice president.”

Little Adam Schiff

Trump accused Rep. Adam Schiff of leaking “confidential information” from “closed committee hearings” and called for him to “be stopped.” The president also referred to the Democrat from California as “Little Adam Schiff.”

“Little Adam Schiff, who is desperate to run for higher office, is one of the biggest liars and leakers in Washington,” Trump said in a tweet, comparing him to former FBI Director James Comey, former National Intelligence Director James Clapper and former CIA Director John Brennan. “Adam leaves closed committee hearings to illegally leak confidential information. Must be stopped!”

Schiff is the ranking minority member on the House Intelligence Committee which released a controversial memo that detailed alleged improper surveillance techniques used in the Russia investigation. Schiff was critical of the memo’s public release – supported by Republicans – calling it “misleading” and “undermining” of the probe.

Crooked Hillary

Throughout the presidential campaign, Trump would often hit his opponent, Hillary Clinton, with criticisms on social media. Trump gave her the nickname “Crooked Hillary,” usually when he mentioned her use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state.

The first time Trump tweeted about “Crooked Hillary” was in April 2016.

Sometimes Trump switched it up and would call the former first lady “Lyin’ Hillary.”

Wild Bill Clinton

While slamming Comey’s new book, Trump referenced a meeting between former President Bill Clinton and Loretta Lynch on a Phoenix airport tarmac in June 2016. The meeting was questioned because the then-attorney general was leading the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s email scandal.

“Comey throws AG Lynch ‘under the bus!’ Why can’t we all find out what happened on the tarmac in the back of the plane with Wild Bill and Lynch?” Trump said. “Was (Lynch) promised a Supreme Court seat, or AG, in order to lay off Hillary. No golf and grandkids talk (give us all a break)!”

Lynch said in an interview with NBC News that she and Clinton discussed only “innocuous things” on the tarmac but acknowledged that her “speaking to the former president raised concerns in people’s minds about whether or not there was going to be any impact on the email investigation.”

Cheatin’ Obama

Trump praised his own approval ratings on social media – while taking a jab at former President Barack Obama.

The president said the “honest polling” of Rasmussen shows his approval rating at 50 percent, “which is higher than Cheatin’ Obama at the same time in his Administration.”

The April 2 Rasmussen poll showed 50 percent of likely U.S. voters approved of Trump. However, 49 percent disapproved.

Little Marco

The rhetoric among the Republican presidential contenders hit a different kind of low as Florida Sen. Marco Rubio went after Trump for having “small hands” and Trump started to call the senator “Little Marco.” The two also discussed the size of Trump’s hands – and other things – during a GOP debate in March 2016.

Trump first tweeted the “Little Marco” nickname in February 2016.

Lyin’ Ted

Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and Trump didn’t start out as enemies during the 2016 campaign, but the two Republican contenders were soon at each other’s throats. Trump dubbed Cruz “Lyin’ Ted” when he went after him for his immigration policies in a campaign ad in March 2016.

Low Energy Jeb

Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush also got a Trump nickname when he was a 2016 Republican presidential contender – “Low energy Jeb Bush.”

Despite the exclamation point in Bush’s campaign logo, Trump started to use the nickname to criticize his opponent during the campaign. Trump told Business Insider that there wasn’t a backstory to the nickname, he “just seemed” like a “low energy” person to Trump.

1 for 38

When Ohio Gov. John Kasich attempted to team up with Cruz during the Republican primary to deny Trump the party’s nomination, Trump took to Twitter to dole out a new nickname. And Kasich became “1 for 38.”

Trump assigned Kasich the name because he won only one state in the primary and lost the others, Trump said in a statement in August 2016. Eventually Kasich would also be referred to as “1 for 42” by the eventual president.



Crazy Bernie

Sen. Bernie Sanders, the white-haired Independent socialist who became a progressive icon during the 2016 election, earned himself the nickname “Crazy Bernie” from Trump.

Trump first tweeted about “Crazy Bernie” in May 2016 when he criticized “Crooked Hillary” for “looking very bad against” Sanders.

Crying Chuck

After Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, N.Y., criticized Trump for firing F.B.I. Director James Comey, Trump hit him right back – with an original nickname.

“Cryin’ Chuck Schumer stated recently, “I do not have confidence in him (James Comey) any longer.” Then acts so indignant,” he tweeted on May 9, 2017.

Schumer shed some tears when he discussed Trump’s immigration ban earlier in 2017.

But Schumer wasn’t crying after Trump agreed to the Democrats’ short-term debt-limit increase and Hurricane Harvey aid.

Crazy Jim Acosta

Trump had a surprising tweet of gratitude Tuesday morning for CNN’s White House correspondent, Jim Acosta – while also bestowing a nickname on his media adversary.

“Even Crazy Jim Acosta of Fake News CNN agrees: ‘Trump World and WH sources dancing in end zone: Trump wins again…Schumer and Dems caved…gambled and lost.’ Thank you for your honesty Jim!” Trump tweeted.

Trump’s tweet referenced Acosta’s earlier social media post.

The president and his administration has often slammed Acosta and CNN for coverage they deem unfair – or “fake news.” Trump has also kicked Acosta out of the Oval Office.

Sleepy Eyes

Trump has thought NBC reporter Chuck Todd has looked “sleepy” long before the election or campaign. He first dubbed Todd “sleepy” in a 2001 tweet, but upgraded his nickname to “Sleepy Eyes” by 2012.

And in 2018, at a campaign rally for a Republican congressional candidate, Trump slammed the NBC anchor as a “son of a b-----.”

Trump mentioned a 1999 "Meet the Press" appearance when he discussed North Korea.

“It’s 1999, I’m on 'Meet the Press,' a show now headed by sleepy-eyes Chuck Todd,” Trump said. “He’s a sleeping son of a b----, I’ll tell you.”

Dumb as a Rock Mika

From writer Touré to National Review, Trump has called many things “dumb as a rock.” But Mika Brzezinski, co-host of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” earned the nickname in July after she and Joe Scarborough criticized the president.

“Crazy Joe Scarborough and dumb as a rock Mika are not bad people, but their low rated show is dominated by their NBC bosses,” he tweeted. “Too bad!”

His attack on the news anchor continued, as he called her “low I.Q. Crazy Mika” and said she was “bleeding badly from a face-lift” when she came to Mar-a-Lago around New Year’s Eve.

Psycho Joe

In a Twitter rant about his dislike of MSNBC’s “Morning Joe” program, Trump dubbed host Joe Scarborough “Psycho Joe.”

Crazy Megyn

Trump’s comments about then-Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly were often criticized and deemed misogynistic by critics. During their feud, Trump took to calling Kelly “Crazy Megyn.”

Little Jeff Zucker

Trump criticized CNN in an April tweet – and called its president “Little Jeff Zucker.”

“Check out the fact that you can’t get a job at ratings challenged [CNN] unless you state that you are totally anti-Trump,” the president alleged on social media. “Little Jeff Zucker, whose job is in jeopardy, is not having much fun lately. They should clean up and strengthen CNN and get back to honest reporting.”

Fox News' Matt Richardson and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Russia's "tendencies" to be a rogue nation pose challenges in ending the strife in Syria, Karen Pierce, the U.K.'s ambassador to the United Nations, tells Fox News.

Russia, which is part of the P5 -- the five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council -- partnered with the U.S. in 2013, when the U.S. was conducting airstrikes on Syria, on an agreement that called for Syria’s chemical weapons stash to be removed by the middle of 2014.

Now, however, Russian President Vladimir Putin has sided with the Bashar Assad regime, and warned of “consequences” related to targeted military airstrikes ordered by President Trump late Friday.

“I hope, even at this late stage, that Russia would still come back and would still help us resolve this crisis,” Pierce, in her first interview with American television as the ambassador, told Eric Shawn during an interview that aired Sunday on Fox News.

“But I think we find it astounding, as do many people, that a country that helped build the chemical weapons convention and the global non-proliferation regime, that Russia can now be one of those rogue countries that are looking to undo it,” the ambassador said.

The airstrikes in Syria occurred in the early hours of Saturday morning after President Donald Trump had threatened to attack the Bashar Assad regime, in retaliation for an alleged chemical weapons attack a week ago which reportedly killed more than 70 people and left 500 in Douma – a suburb of the capital city Damascus – exhibiting symptoms consistent with exposure to toxic chemicals, according to the World Health Organization. Both Britain and France participated in the strikes, which hit the Barzah Research and Development Center outside Damascus and two chemical weapons storage facilities near the city of Homs.

Speaking before the UN Security Council on Saturday, Pierce, Britain’s first female ambassador in the intergovernmental organization’s history, laid out the details of a diplomatic resolution to the Syrian crisis, which is being developed along with the U.S. and France.

'. . . we look to the Russians to come back into the international fold and help us resolve this conflict.' - Karen Pierce

The resolution calls for ending the chemical weapons program and having the stockpiles destroyed, a cessation of hostilities and compliance with all Security Council resolutions, having the Assad regime return to Geneva talks and accountability for the use of the weapons and other war crimes in Syria.

“It represents the will of the vast majority of people on the Security Council, including China, so over the next few days and weeks, we will be pursuing that with the secretary general and we look to the Russians to come back into the international fold and help us resolve this conflict,” she explained Sunday.Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin apologized Sunday for saying that children were sexually abused because they were left home alone while teachers rallied to ask lawmakers to override his vetoes.

The Republican issued his apology in a nearly four-minute video posted online, saying: “It is not my intent to hurt anybody in this process, but to help us all move forward together.”

“It’s my responsibility to represent you, not only when I’m speaking to you, but when I’m speaking on your behalf in ways that are clear, that are understood, that don’t hurt people and don’t confuse people,” he added.

“And to the extent that I do that well, great. And to the times when I don’t do it well, that’s on me. I’m sorry for those of you, every single one of you, that has been hurt by things that I’ve said.”

On Friday, Bevin’s comments were part of his statement criticizing teachers for leaving work to protest at the Capitol. More than 30 school districts closed Friday.

Bevin’s comments came shortly after Republican lawmakers voted to override his vetoes of an operating budget that included increased spending for public education with the help of an accompanying tax increase.

The GOP-led Kentucky House later approved a pair of resolutions condemning Bevin’s comments.

Telephone messages left with spokesmen for the House Democratic caucus, House Republicans and the Kentucky Education Association weren’t immediately returned Sunday.Democrats and Republicans agree that James Comey is guilty of politicizing the FBI and meddling in the 2016 election. Everyone can now see that he is guilty of self-righteousness, self-regard and inappropriately producing a petty cash-for-gossip revenge attack on President Trump.

But the serious question, and one that goes to the heart of our confidence in law enforcement in this country, is whether James Comey is guilty of federal crimes.

If he there is evidence to that effect, and if a case is not brought against him, that would be a shattering blow to democratic norms. It would send a message that the most senior law enforcement officials in the land can behave exactly as they wish, carry out whatever personal and political vendettas they want - and get away with it. It would send a message that America’s law enforcement officials are, in fact, above the law.

That is a dangerous and frightening scenario - one you would more normally associate with a banana republic or authoritarian dictatorship than the world’s oldest democracy.

So it’s important we examine this matter carefully. There are many accusations about Comey’s behavior swirling around. The very fact that his tenure at the FBI has brought so much controversy in its wake - even before President Trump was elected, let’s remember - point to a level of professional incompetence that deserves censure.

All of this may be profoundly unethical and disturbing. But the legal question is: do these actions pass the threshold for Abuse of Power, Perjury, Making False and Misleading Statements, and again, Obstruction of Justice?

But incompetence by government officials, however unfortunate, does not undermine the republic. Lawlessness by government officials: that’s a different matter.

There are four specific areas where there are serious grounds to suspect that James Comey broke the law while he was FBI Director:

First, his handling of the Hillary Clinton email investigation. Why was no Grand Jury empanelled in this case? Why was no search warrant issued? Why was immunity granted to Clinton aides, which effectively stripped Congress of its power to issue subpoenas to gather evidence from phones and laptops before they were destroyed?

And does all this amount to Obstruction of Justice?

Second, the manner in which James Comey closed the Clinton email investigation. He testified to Congress that he made the decision to clear Hillary Clinton after she was interviewed by the FBI. But FBI documents suggest that it was before. Does this constitute Perjury/Lying to Congress?

Third, Comey has publicly admitted that he gave memos recording his interactions with President Trump to a friend at Columbia Law School with the intention that the contents would be leaked to the media in order to prompt the appointment of a Special Counsel. These were documents created on an FBI computer and which dealt with an ongoing, highly sensitive investigation. Reasonable observers would conclude that these memos were FBI property. So: does leaking them in this unauthorized way mean Comey is guilty of Theft of Government Property or Records?

Finally, the infamous Russia dossier which was used to obtain a FISA warrant to spy on the Trump campaign. Two Congressional Committees have already established that the FBI knew the dossier was largely fabricated - indeed James Comey himself described it as “salacious and unverified.” The FBI also knew that it was paid for by the Clinton campaign (as part of the campaign), and that the dossier was compiled by someone with a clearly stated bias against Donald Trump. The FBI knew that they needed the dossier to spy on the Trump campaign, and so relied on it to obtain the FISA warrant anyway.

All of this may be profoundly unethical and disturbing. But the legal question is: do these actions pass the threshold for Abuse of Power, Perjury, Making False and Misleading Statements, and again, Obstruction of Justice?

These are the questions we will investigate, with a top team of lawyers on both sides, in our special edition of The Next Revolution - “The Trial of James Comey” tonight at 9pm ET on Fox News.

I hope you can join us!'They Don't Want Black Folks Voting': Biden Rips GOP on Voter ID, Trump's 'Lie' on 'Fraud' Ben Stiller, Trump Critic De Niro Reunite for 'SNL' Mueller 'Interrogation' Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski ripped the former top two officials at the FBI, accusing one of being an outright felon. Former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski ripped the former top two officials at the FBI, accusing one of being an outright felon.

Lewandowski said he believes the fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe is guilty of perjury in relation to investigations into President Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.

"Felon McCabe, who's now been accused of by the [Inspector General] of lying three times under oath... is also saying that [former FBI Director] Jim Comey has been untruthful," Lewandowski said.

"So, now you've got two liars lying about each other but they work together every single day," Lewandowski said.

He said the fact the press is giving credence to claims by Comey and McCabe is reminiscent of how seriously author Michael Wolff was considered earlier this year.

Wolff published a book he claimed to be a tell-all about the inner workings of the Trump White House, but was later criticized for the work's truthfulness.

"The media gives this guy all the credit," Lewandowski said of Comey, adding that the former FBI director is "going to make a fortune" off his book as well.

Host Howie Kurtz reminded Lewandowski that McCabe is not a felon.

"Well, he should be," Lewandowski said.

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' Memoir

'Women Are Dying Because We're Losing': MN Dem Ellison Links GOP Election Wins to Maternal MortalityBen Stiller, Trump Critic De Niro Reunite for 'SNL' Mueller 'Interrogation'

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' Memoir

Former Vice President Joe Biden said Sunday that President Trump's assertion that millions of people voted illegally in the 2016 election is a "flat lie."

"It's a lie," he told MSNBC host and East Harlem, N.Y. preacher Al Sharpton. "The assertion the president made from the beginning is a flat lie."

Biden added that Republicans are trying to disenfranchise minorities by pressing for voter identification laws.

"It's what these guys are all about, man," Biden, also a former Delaware senator, said.

"Republicans don't want working class people voting. They don't want black folks voting," he said.

Biden noted that he was meeting with Sharpton at the University of Pennsylvania in West Philadelphia, Pa.

He said that if the Continental Congress was holding its constitutional convention across town today, "70 percent of the Republicans" would vote for an amendment barring people without a college degree from voting.

Biden said voter identification laws would hurt elderly, lower-class people without access to a car, and called for "automatic registration" upon turning 18.

Sharpton also asked about Biden's 2020 ambitions.

Former Vice President @JoeBiden answers my question about running for office in 2020. #PoliticsNation pic.twitter.com/XO3g6bq2nh — Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) April 15, 2018

Biden said he hopes that someone else in the Democratic Party will step up to face Trump, adding that he was focused on his family in 2016.

Former Vice President @JoeBiden reflects on the loss of his son and rebuilding his family when answering my question about running for President in 2020. #PoliticsNation pic.twitter.com/f898hpkfkh — Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) April 15, 2018

He said his family was intensely affected by the death of his son, Joseph "Beau" Biden III.

He also reminded Sharpton how he and his family previously faced sudden tragedy when his first wife and daughter were killed in a New Castle County, Del. car accident in 1972.

Watch more above.

'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th Birthday

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' Book'Women Are Dying Because We're Losing': MN Dem Ellison Links GOP Election Wins to Maternal Mortality

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' Memoir

The head of a conservative activist group was "disinvited" from a voluntary event at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., where a gunman killed 17 people on Feb. 14.

Charlie Kirk, founder of Turning Point USA, said a group of students led by shooting survivor Kyle Kashuv invited him to speak after school to those who were interested in hearing from him.

Kirk said he would be speaking about gun rights, natural rights and the Constitution in the wake of the deadly shooting at the Broward County school.

"My mission would not have been to offend. I did not want to make anyone feel uncomfortable, but instead, here’s what really troubles me. Ever since that horrific shooting, the national conversation predominately from students from that school has been about gun confiscation about taking people’s guns away," Kirk said.

Kirk said he wanted to discuss the failures of local law enforcement and the FBI, a topic he said is not often discussed -- in favor of gun control and Second Amendment critiques.

He said the school administration holds a "predominant... left-wing world view."

Hey ANTIFA! Why wear the masks? If you are so proud to stand for your beliefs why hide? Only a coward has to wear a mask in public Are you afraid you might be seen for who you really are: radical, unhappy, narcissistic losers with no purpose, drive, or meaning in your life? — Charlie Kirk (@charliekirk11) April 15, 2018

The "Fox & Friends" hosts also asked Kirk about an incident at his organization's conference in Illinois, where masked Antifa protesters showed up and ignited a fire.

Kirk said he called police, who arrested some of the Antifa members.

"They hate the idea that there are other ideas [than theirs]," Kirk said. "We were trying to peacefully train our student leaders [and] these spoiled brats had to come here and disrupt and cause chaos."

Watch more above.

Ben Stiller, Trump Critic De Niro Reunite for 'SNL' Mueller 'Interrogation'

'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th BirthdayBen Stiller, Trump Critic De Niro Reunite for 'SNL' Mueller 'Interrogation'

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' Memoir

The deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee said "women are dying" because members of his party are "losing elections."

Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn.) said at a "progressive change" training conference in Washington that Democrats must reclaim their former electoral prowess.

"Women are dying because we are losing elections," the Minneapolis Democrat said. "We don't have the right to lose a damn election. We have to win."

Ellison, 54, lamented his loss to Tom Perez in the race for the DNC chairmanship, with the sentiment receiving boos from the left-wing crowd, according to the Washington Free Beacon.

"Did you know that in Missouri and Texas... maternal mortality has risen?" Ellison said in prefacing his "women are dying" remark.

New York gubernatorial candidate Cynthia Nixon, a progressive Democrat who played Miranda in "Sex and the City," also addressed the event.

Nixon is seeking a primary bid against two-term New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), recently making news when she called the liberal former HUD secretary a "wannabe Republican."

Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) were also featured speakers at the event.

Pence to Russia: 'You're On the Wrong Side of History'

'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th BirthdayDe Niro Absolutely Goes Off on Trump: 'I'd Like to Punch Him in the Face'

Robert De Niro on Trump's Victory: 'I Feel Like I Did After 9/11'

'[Expletive]-In-Chief': Robert De Niro Bashes Trump in Awards Speech

"Meet the Parents" co-stars Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller reunited on "Saturday Night Live" in an opening skit centered around the raid of Trump attorney Michael Cohen's office.

Vice President Mike Pence, played by Beck Bennett, discussed the probe with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, played by Kate McKinnon.

Bennett's Pence tells Sessions that the presidency will be back to normal soon, "because it will be me."

The pair meet Cohen, played by Stiller, and lead him to a room with a polygraph machine.

De Niro, who once said of Trump that he wanted to "punch him in the face," enters the room as Robert Mueller.

"If you're innocent, you have nothing to worry about," De Niro's Mueller said. "How'd you like that pee-pee tape?"

Pence to Russia: 'You're On the Wrong Side of History'

'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th Birthday

He later asked Stiller's Cohen about a $130,000 payment made to Stormy Daniels.

Stiller's Cohen inquired about "codenames" Mueller used for the Trump team.

De Niro's Mueller said Trump's was "Putin's little [expletive]," Ivanka Trump's was "girlfriend," Jared Kushner's was "other girlfriend," Donald Trump Jr.'s and Eric Trump's were "two Fredo's" -- and Cohen's was "dead man walking."

"You broke the law, and now we're going to catch all you 'little fockers'," De Niro's Mueller said, in a veiled reference to the third "Meet The Parents" film installment.

Watch more above.

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' Book

Oliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, RussiaPence to Russia: 'You're On the Wrong Side of History'

'Racist & Rapist': Vandals Deface UVA's Thomas Jefferson Statue on Founder's 275th Birthday

In her Opening Statement, Judge Jeanine Pirro ripped former FBI Director James Comey, calling his new memoir "A Higher Loyalty" all about a "loyalty to himself."

"Why would you believe a guy with a history replete with lies, dishonesty and contradictions?" Pirro asked.

Pirro said that Comey was blustering when he repeatedly praised former President Barack Obama, and at one point wrote that he "could see and evaluate a variety of angles on complicated issues."

"Like when [Obama] bragged about traveling to all '57' states?" Pirro asked.

She called his book as "unprofessional and illegitimate as a Stormy Daniels highlight reel."

James Comey, you are a pompous, egotistical, patronizing, condescending, holier-than-thou political operative trying to redeem your reputation...Your book is about a higher loyalty to none other than you. #OpeningStatement pic.twitter.com/Quq5xatGkg — Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) April 15, 2018

Pirro said Comey wrote at length about Trump as a person, noting the size of his hands, considering whether or not he regularly wears tanning goggles and whether his famous hair is real.

She remarked that Comey himself was the subject of contemplation at the FBI, with agents reportedly referring to him as Cardinal Comey.

Pirro said it was unbecoming of his former office to try to consider whether First Lady Melania Trump would believe President Donald Trump was involved in a graphic sex act with prostitutes in Russia, as claimed in an unverified dossier.

.@JudgeJeanine: "Now why would you believe a guy with a history replete with lies, dishonesty and contradictions? We'll find out Tuesday when disgraced former FBI Director James @Comey's book, 'A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership' hits the stands." pic.twitter.com/cOcApj6wWj — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 15, 2018

She remarked that it was because "Patrice [Comey] was never presented with a fake dossier by the director of the FBI, who parenthetically knew it wasn't true."

Pirro ripped Comey for excusing his actions late in the 2016 election as trying to prevent a "tainted" Hillary Clinton presidency.

"Everyone in law enforcement knows you reopened the Hillary Clinton case because the NYPD and the New York [FBI] field office were going to 'out' you for protecting her," Pirro said.

Watch more above.

Dershowitz Blasts 'Shameful' Comey for 'Gossipy Revenge' Book

Oliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, RussiaWARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGES BELOW

Police photos related to the ‘Slender Man’ stabbing attack reveal blood-soaked clothing, and the knife used in the assault that left the victim with "uncomfortable" scars.

Wisconsin police released Friday the horrific crime scene photos showing the blood-soaked clothes from the 2014 stabbing when two girls attempted to kill a 12-year-old classmate in order to please a fictional horror character named “Slender Man.”

The photos from the so-called “Slender Man” stabbing case were released since Morgan Geyser, 15, and Anissa Weier, 16, began serving their decades-long sentence in a mental hospital, WISN reported. The girls admitted to stabbing classmate Payton Leutner in order to become Slender Man’s “proxies,” or servants, and protect their families from the fictional character.

The images released by the Waukesha Police Department showed Leutner’s white shirt — emblazoned with the words “Love, Hope, Smile, Beautiful, Dream” — covered in blood and filled with puncture holes from the knife that was plunged into the 12-year-old's body. Leutner was stabbed 19 times, with one of the wounds just missing her heart by a fraction of an inch, WISN reported.

The girl’s yellow pants also had blood on them. The crime scene photos included the kitchen knife used in the stabbing, Kudos cereal bars and notebooks.

Geyser and Weier also had blood splatters on their clothes despite running into a Walmart to clean themselves off. Weier was pictured with blood soaked on her undershirt while Geyser had it on her coat, according to WISN.

The girls had lured Leutner into a wooded park in Waukesha, a Milwaukee suburb, to carry out the stabbing. Geyser plunged the knife into her sixth-grade classmate as Weier urged her on, investigators said at the time.

Leutner survived the attack by crawling out of the woods to a path where a bicyclist found her.

Leutner’s mother said the now-high school freshman has 25 uncomfortable scars on her body.

"[Payton is] still red and angry more than three years later. Payton has a lifetime of healing ahead of her,” the mother said, according to WISN.

Geyser was ordered to 40 years in a mental hospital in February after pleading guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide. Weier, who also pleaded guilty to being a party to attempted second-degree intentional homicide, was sentenced last December to 25 years in a mental hospital, the maximum punishment possible.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The same day that the fired FBI Director James Comey was set to appear in a long-awaited interview, he engaged in a back-and-forth slugfest with President Trump Sunday on Twitter.

Plugging his new book, “A Higher Loyalty,” Comey seemed to take a thinly veiled shot at Trump. “My book is about ethical leadership & draws on stories from my life & lessons I learned from others. 3 presidents are in my book: 2 help illustrate the values at the heart of ethical leadership; 1 serves as a counterpoint,” he tweeted. Comey's ABC News interview airs Sunday night.

Earlier Sunday, Trump called Comey the FBI's worst leader “in history” and a “slimeball,” in a string of tweets.

“Slippery James Comey, a man who always ends up badly and out of whack (he is not smart!), will go down as the WORST FBI Director in history, by far!” Trump wrote.

He also tweeted that Comey's mishandling of the Clinton email probe showed he deserved “jail” time.

“Unbelievably, James Comey states that Polls, where Crooked Hillary was leading, were a factor in the handling (stupidly) of the Clinton Email probe,” Trump tweeted. “In other words, he was making decisions based on the fact that he thought she was going to win, and he wanted a job. Slimeball!”

Comey, whom Trump fired in May 2017, wrote in his upcoming book that his decisions about restarting the federal probe into Hillary Clinton’s use of private email servers while secretary of state was influenced by her likely winning the 2016 White House race over Trump and that he was concerned about making her a “legitimate candidate.”

Trump tweeted five times Sunday on the issues.

“The big questions in Comey’s badly reviewed book aren’t answered like, how come he gave up Classified Information (jail), why did he lie to Congress (jail), why did the DNC refuse to give Server to the FBI (why didn’t they TAKE it), why the phony memos … ,” Trump also tweeted.

Trump has said he fired Comey because of his handling of the FBI's investigation into Clinton's email practices. Trump used the investigation as a cudgel in the campaign and repeatedly said Clinton should be jailed for using a personal email system while serving as secretary of state.

Democrats, on the other hand, have accused Comey of politicizing the investigation, and Clinton herself has said it hurt her election prospects.

“I never asked Comey for Personal Loyalty,” tweeted Trump, who purportedly asked Comey for a loyalty pledge. “I hardly even knew this guy. Just another of his many lies. His “memos” are self serving and FAKE!”

Comey, who was appointed in 2013 by then-President Barack Obama, wrote that he regretted his approach and some of the wording he used in his July 2016 press conference in which he announced the decision not to recommend charges be brought against Clinton. But he said he believed he did the right thing by going before the cameras and making his statement, noting that the Justice Department had done so in other high-profile cases.

In the book, which hits store shelves April 17, Comey also revealed new details about how the government had unverified classified information that he believes could have been used to cast doubt on Attorney General Loretta Lynch's independence in the Clinton probe.

While Comey did not outline the details of the information -- and claimed he didn't see indications of Lynch inappropriately influencing the investigation -- he said it worried him that the material could be used to attack the integrity of the probe and the FBI's independence.

“Comey throws AG Lynch ‘under the bus!’ Why can’t we all find out what happened on the tarmac in the back of the plane with Wild Bill and Lynch?” Trump wrote in another tweet Sunday, referring to former President Bill Clinton going uninvited onto Lynch’s plane in Arizona and talking to her amid the investigations. “Was (Lynch) promised a Supreme Court seat, or AG, in order to lay off Hillary. No golf and grandkids talk (give us all a break)!”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Look out, world. New Yorkers have discovered that their city has four Chick-fil-A restaurants – including the world’s largest.

Word got out last week in a New Yorker magazine article titled “Chick-fil-A’s creepy infiltration of New York City.”

The author is Dan Piepenbring, described as being from Brooklyn.

“The air smelled fried,” he reports about his arrival at the chain’s Fulton Street location.

He then recounts how one of the Manhattan locations boasts of selling one sandwich every six seconds, and reports that the company plans to open “as many as a dozen more storefronts” in the city.

Then comes a discussion of what he describes as the company’s “pervasive Christian traditionalism.”

Piepenbring mentions that Chick-fil-A CEO Dan Cathy has been accused of anti-gay bigotry, and that the headquarters in Atlanta is “adorned with Bible verses and a statue of Jesus washing a disciple’s feet.”

He then slams the company’s “Eat Mor Chickin” promotions, calling them “one of the most popular, and most morbid, advertising campaigns in fast-food history.”

Some Twitter users were not impressed with the article.

“Going to be funny when The New Yorker employees start sneaking in their delicious food...wonder if they will be fired,” one Twitter user wrote.

“This is bigotry,” another commented. “The New Yorker would never use the word "infiltration" to describe newcomers of any other religion.”

“The New Yorker sneering at the Chick-fil-A cows is why Trump won,” a third Twitter user wrote.

Regardless of what the New Yorker and its staff might think, it seems that Americans have already rendered their verdict on the restaurant chain.

Earlier this month, Fox News reported that Chick-fil-A is on pace to become the nation’s third largest fast food chain by 2020.

Fox News’ Michael Bartiromo contributed to this story.One of two Wisconsin girls who tried to kill a classmate to win favor with a fictional horror character named Slender Man was sentenced Thursday to 25 years in a mental hospital, the maximum punishment possible.

Anissa Weier, 16, pleaded guilty in August to being a party to attempted second-degree intentional homicide, but she claimed she wasn't responsible for her actions because she was mentally ill. In September, a jury agreed.

Waukesha County Circuit Judge Michael Bohren on Thursday sentenced Weier to 25 years in a psychiatric institution, retroactive to the date of the crime. That means she would be institutionalized until age 37.

Weier and Morgan Geyser lured Payton Leutner into a wooded park in Waukesha, a Milwaukee suburb, in 2014. Geyser stabbed Leutner 19 times while Weier urged her on, according to investigators. Leutner survived after she crawled out of the woods to a path where a passing bicyclist found her.

Both Weier and Geyser told detectives they felt they had to kill Leutner to become Slender Man's "proxies," or servants, and protect their families from him. All three girls were 12 years old at the time.

Weier apologized in brief comments before her sentencing.

"I do hold myself accountable for this and that I will do whatever I have to do to make sure I don't get any sort of delusion or whatever again," Weier told the judge, as she sat next to her attorney. "I want everybody involved to know I deeply regret everything that happened that day. I know that nothing I say is going to make this right and nothing I say is going to fix what I broke."

Leutner family spokesman Steve Lyons said they were pleased with the sentence.

"They believe that justice was served," Lyons said. "The sentence today allows for some additional closure for Payton and her family and it also keeps both Payton, her family and the community safe."

Leutner's mother, Stacie Leutner, sent the judge a letter this week in which she wrote that the trauma of the attack "has defined our lives" and that her daughter still fears for her life. For months, Payton slept with scissors under her pillow for protection, and she still keeps her bedroom windows closed and locked.

"She will struggle with the events of that day and physical and emotional scars it left for the rest of her life," her mother wrote.

In her letter, Leutner did not ask the judge to sentence Weier to a specific length of time in the mental hospital, but she said her daughter wouldn't feel safe if either of her attackers is released back into the community unsupervised.

"Payton has a lifetime of healing ahead of her and she deserves to be allowed to heal in an environment where she feels safe," her mother wrote.

No one from the victim's family addressed the court during the sentencing hearing, deferring instead to the letter from her mother. Prosecutor Kevin Osborne argued for the maximum 25-year confinement, which the judge granted citing ongoing concerns about her mental stability.

"Considering the nature and gravity of this offense, being supervised until the age of 37 is not all that long ... in terms of the fact that Payton is looking at a lifetime of scars, physical scars and psychological scarring," Osborne said.

Weier's attorney, Maura McMahon, argued that she should not be hospitalized beyond her 25th birthday. She played a video in court with Weier's father, sister and grandparents speaking on her behalf.

"She's grown mentally and physically," her father William Weier said. "She knows what she did was wrong."

He asked for forgiveness from the Leutner family.

In a deal with prosecutors, Geyser, who did the stabbing, pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide with the agreement that she isn't criminally responsible and shouldn't go to prison. She will be sentenced in February, and prosecutors have asked that she be given at least 40 years in a mental hospital.

Slender Man started with an online post in 2009, as a mysterious specter whose image people edit into everyday scenes of children at play. He is typically depicted as a spidery figure in a black suit with a featureless white face. He was regarded by his devotees as alternately a sinister force and an avenging angel.

___

This story has been corrected to reflect that Geyser pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide, not first-degree intentional homicide.

___

Follow Scott Bauer on Twitter at https://twitter.com/sbauerAP and sign up for the AP's weekly newsletter showcasing our best reporting from the Midwest and Texas at http://apne.ws/2u1RMfv .Halloween came early for some people.

Residents in Gresham, Ore., received a scare Thursday after spotting a person impersonating the fictional horror character “Slender Man” walking around town.

Fox 12 Oregon reported residents witnessed a man walking around town in daylight wearing a suit with gloves on his/her hands and a white mask over their face. Some residents called the police out of fright.

“You see heads just turning; people freaked out. He just kept looking at us,” Randi Wicht, a Gresham resident, told Fox 12 Oregon.

“At that time I called the non-emergency number for Gresham, just with everything going on...it’s really creepy,” said Wicht.

PROSECUTORS: KEEP ‘SLENDER MAN’ ATTACKER IN MENTAL HOSPITAL 40 YEARS

Slender Man started with an online post in 2009, as a mysterious specter whose image people edit into everyday scenes of children at play. He is typically depicted as a spidery figure in a black suit with a featureless white face. He was regarded by his devotees as alternately a sinister force and an avenging angel.

Rosa Higdon, another resident, said the sighting made her feel tense.

“I kinda froze, I wasn’t sure if I was really seeing what I was seeing,” Higdon said. “You couldn’t tell if it was a joke or serious, you didn’t know whether to laugh or to be worried, it was kind of confusing."

“I went to get in my car and he was like right here. He didn’t say anything he just stared at me. And I get Halloween, it’s funny and all, but I’m kind of tense right now,” said Higdon.

Gresham Police confirmed that they received a few calls regarding the sighting of Slender Man and told the man to cut it out.

WISCONSIN GIRL TO AVOID PRISON IN ‘SLENDER MAN’ STABBING WITH PLEA AGREEMENT

However, the media outlet discovered that the spooky character would be back as a promotion for a haunted house.

“We don’t mean any harm we just have our characters out there having fun, that’s what they are, they’re actors. We wanted to create an uproar, people to go 'hey, there’s a guy on the street, what’s he doing,'” said Nate Fultz, who works for the House of Shadows, which has used the actor to promote the attraction.

“We can’t stop what we’re doing, we understand people are upset about it, but we can’t stop doing what we do, it’s Halloween season,” Fultz said.

Police confirmed the man did not harm anybody but said the actor should confirm that he worked for a haunted house.

The House of Shadows said they were considering putting a sign with the name of attraction on the costume.

“Slender Man” has made headlines including a case where two 12-year-old Wisconsin girls stabbed a classmate to impress the fictional character in 2014.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Sony Pictures is trying to capitalize on a tragedy by releasing a movie starring horror character Slender Man, according to the father of one of two Wisconsin girls who attacked their classmate to please the fictional boogeyman.

Bill Weier, father of Anissa Weier, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview Wednesday that he hopes local theaters won't show the movie when it's released in May.

"It's absurd they want to make a movie like this," Bill Weier said. ""It's popularizing a tragedy is what it's doing. I'm not surprised but in my opinion it's extremely distasteful. All we're doing is extending the pain all three of these families have gone through."

Sony Pictures media relations officials didn't reply to two emails left in the company's general inbox for reporter's inquiries.

Weier and Morgan Geyser lured classmate Payton Leutner in 2014 to a wooded park in Waukesha, a Milwaukee suburb. There, Geyser stabbed Leutner 19 times, narrowly missing her heart, while Weier urged her on. Leutner managed to crawl out of the woods to a path where a passing bicyclist found her. She survived the attack.

Weier and Geyser told detectives they had to kill Leutner to prove to Slender Man that they were worthy of being his servants as well as protect their families from him. All three girls were 12 years old at the time of the attack.

Geyser, now 15, pleaded guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide in a deal with prosecutors, who have asked she get at least 40 years in a mental hospital when she's sentenced in February. Weier, now 16, was sentenced to 25 years in a mental institution last month after pleading guilty to attempted second-degree intentional homicide.

Slender Man was created online by Eric Knudson in 2009 as a mysterious specter photo-edited into everyday images of children at play. He's typically depicted as a slim, spidery figure in a black suit with a featureless white face that preys on children. He has grown into a popular boogeyman and has appeared in video games and online stories.

The Sony production, entitled "Slender Man," marks the first full-length feature built around the character. The picture is directed by Sylvain White, who also helmed 2007's "Stomp the Yard," and stars Javier Botet as Slender Man.

The studio released a trailer Wednesday. It's unclear from the preview whether the movie will include any elements from the Wisconsin case, but in one scene a wall is covered with drawings of Slender Man that resemble sketches Geyser drew. Other scenes show Slender Man stalking a girl in the woods and a girl stabbing herself in the head with a scalpel in school, showering a classmate with blood.

Geyser's attorney, Anthony Cotton, declined to comment on the movie. A spokesman for Leutner's family didn't immediately reply to email and voicemail messages.

Slender Man has been cited as a factor in other crimes. Days after the Wisconsin stabbing, a 13-year-old girl in Hamilton County, Ohio, attacked her mother with a knife. The mother told WLWT-TV that she thought the girl was obsessed with Slender Man. In September of that same year, a 14-year-old girl in Port Richey, Florida, set her house on fire. Sheriff's deputies said she started the fire after reading an e-book called "Soul Eater" and reading about Slender Man.Prosecutors asked a judge Thursday to sentence a girl to 40 years in a mental hospital for stabbing a classmate in an attack she said was done to please the fictional horror character Slender Man.

Morgan Geyser, now 15, broke down in sobs during her plea hearing as a judge asked her to recount the 2014 stabbing of a classmate in a Milwaukee-area park. A co-defendant, Anissa Weier, also admitted a role in the attack.

An emotional Geyser referred to the victim by her nickname as she began to recount for the judge the crime for which she was pleading guilty.

"I hurt Bella," Geyser said, stopping several times to compose herself during the hearing as she told the judge she stabbed her classmate with a knife she took from home.

"Anissa said that she couldn't do it and then I had to," Geyser said, her voice choking. When Judge Michael Bohren asked her where the girl was stabbed, Geyser said: "Everywhere."

The victim, Payton Leutner, survived the attack by crawling out of woods, where she was found by a passing bicyclist. All three girls were 12 at the time.

Geyser will undergo a doctor's evaluation by Nov. 13, and a hearing for sentencing was to be scheduled later. The defense made no request for length of sentence because the attorneys are waiting for the evaluation.

She agreed last week to plead guilty to attempted first-degree intentional homicide to avoid prison, continuing treatment in a mental hospital instead.

A jury last month determined Weier was mentally ill at the time of the attack. She faces at least three years in a mental hospital when she is sentenced later.

Prosecutors say Weier and Geyser lured Leutner into the woods at a park in the Milwaukee suburb of Waukesha and then attacked her. Geyser stabbed Leutner 19 times while Weier urged her on, according to investigators.

Leutner's family issued a statement saying they were happy to avoid a trial.

"Though we do not believe that an institution is where these attempted murderers belong, the current legal system does not favor victims in this situation," the statement said.

It added: "With this closure, our daughter is a heroic survivor -- and no longer a victim."

Geyser's attorney, Anthony Cotton, said after the hearing his client is remorseful for hurting Leutner and wrote her "a very powerful" apology letter she hopes can be delivered to her one day.

"It's very sincere," Cotton said.

Weier and Geyser told detectives they felt they had to kill Leutner to become Slender Man's "proxies," or servants, and protect their families from him.

Prosecutors initially charged both girls with attempted first-degree intentional homicide, which carries a possible sentence of up to 65 years in prison, but their plea deals spared them that. After Weier pleaded guilty to a reduced charge, a jury determined during her sentencing phase that she was mentally ill at the time of the attack and should not serve prison time.

Two weeks after the jury reached that conclusion, prosecutors and Geyser's defense attorneys agreed on a plea deal, avoiding a trial that was scheduled to start Oct. 16. Unlike Weier, Geyser pleaded guilty to the original charge.

Geyser's attorneys have argued in court documents that she suffers from schizophrenia and psychotic spectrum disorder, making her prone to delusions and paranoid beliefs. During Thursday's hearing, Geyser told the judge she's currently on "quite a few" medications.

A psychiatrist hired by her attorneys previously testified that she believed she could communicate telepathically with Slender Man and could see and hear other fictional characters, including unicorns and characters from the Harry Potter and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles series. She also believed she had "Vulcan mind control."

Slender Man started with an online post in 2009, as a mysterious specter whose image people edit into everyday scenes of children at play. He is typically depicted as a spidery figure in a black suit with a featureless white face. He was regarded by his devotees as alternately a sinister force and an avenging angel.

___

Associated Press writer Scott Bauer contributed to this report from Madison, Wisconsin.A recall of 207 million eggs was announced Friday over fears the popular breakfast food may be contaminated with salmonella.

The Food and Drug Administration issued the voluntary recall for 206,749,248 eggs produced by Rose Acre Farms of Seymour, Ind. At least 22 illnesses related to the eggs have been reported at the time the recall was issued.

“Consumers who have purchased shells eggs are urged to immediately discontinue use of the recalled eggs and to return them to the place of purchase for a full refund,” the FDA said in a statement.

Health officials discovered the possible outbreak after reports of illnesses from consumers living on the East Coast. FDA officials inspected Hyde County farm, a facility in North Carolina that produces 2.3 million eggs a day.

The eggs were distributed to retail stores and restaurants in Colorado, Florida, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia. The eggs were sold under several brands including Country Daybreak, Food Lion and Crystal Farms.

People with salmonella may develop symptoms such as fever, diarrhea, vomiting and abdominal pain. At times, infections could be fatal, especially in young children or elderly people. The bacteria can also cause arterial infections, endocarditis and arthritis in rare occasions.

Salmonella can contaminate the breakfast food product when infected chickens transfer the foodborne bacteria to the eggs before the shells are formed, the Centers for Disease Control reported. The bacteria can also pass through chicken feces getting on the eggs.

The egg recall also comes on the same day the CDC announced multistate E. coli outbreak linked to chopped romaine lettuce. At least 22 people were hospitalized.article

(Reuters) - Nearly 207 million eggs from a farm in North Carolina are being recalled from nine U.S. states after 22 people fell ill, the federal Food and Drug Administration has said.

Continue Reading Below

It is the largest recall of eggs in the United States since 2010, the Food Safety News website reported.

The eggs may have been contaminated with salmonella braenderup, an organism which can cause serious and sometimes fatal infections in young children, frail or elderly people and others with weakened immune systems, the FDA said on Friday in a statement.

The eggs were recalled by producer Rose Acre Farms of Seymour, Indiana "through an abundance of caution," the FDA's statement said.

The eggs were distributed from a farm in Hyde County, North Carolina, which, Food Safety News said, produces 2.3 million eggs per day from 3 million laying hens.

The eggs reached consumers in Florida, New York, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, New Jersey, Virginia, Colorado, South Carolina, and West Virginia.

Advertisement

(Reporting by Bernie Woodall in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Editing by Nick Zieminski)The USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service issued a recall of more than 7,000 pounds of raw beef products.

The items were shipped to locations in Alabama, Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas and Wisconsin.



The products subject to recall bear the establishment number “EST. 34715” inside the USDA mark of inspection.

The problem was discovered on March 30 when inspection personnel reviewed records and determined that the establishment operated on March 24 without inspection.

FSIS is concerned that some product may be frozen and in consumers’ freezers. Consumers who have purchased these products are urged not to consume them. These products should be thrown away or returned to the place of purchase.

The affected products are as follows:Former first lady Barbara Bush is in "failing health" and will not seek additional medical treatment after a series of recent hospitalizations, a family spokesman said Sunday.

The 92-year-old wife of former President George H.W. Bush will instead focus on comfort care, a family spokesman Jim McGrath said in a statement.

“Following a recent series of hospitalizations, and after consulting her family and doctors, Mrs. Bush, now age 92, has decided not to seek additional medical treatment and will instead focus on comfort care. It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others,” the statement read.

“She is surrounded by a family she adores, and appreciates the many kind messages and especially the prayers she is receiving,” it continued.

McGrath did not elaborate on Bush’s health problems. For decades, she has been treated for Graves' disease, a thyroid condition.

Barbara Bush has been married to George H.W. Bush since 1945, when she was 19 and he was 20. They have six children, including former President George W. Bush.

The Bushes have been married longer than any presidential couple in American history and Barbara Bush is one of only two first ladies who was also the mother of a president. The other was Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams.



The former first lady wrote Smith College's alumnae magazine last month she's "still old and still in love with the man" she married in 1945, the Boston Globe reported.

“I have had great medical care and more operations than you would believe. I’m not sure God will recognize me; I have so many new body parts! Also, George Bush has given me the world. He is the best — thoughtful and loving,” she said.

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley tweeted Sunday that Barbara Bush is "a woman of great faith, great strength, and an unwavering love of country."

Former U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchinson, now the permanent U.S. representative to NATO, described Bush as "one of America's most-loved women," while "The View" co-host Meghan McCain called her "a woman of great strength, patriotism and an iconic first lady of our times who has touched and inspired countless lives."

George H.W. Bush, 94, also has had health issues in recent years.

In April 2017, he was released from a hospital in Houston after being treated for two weeks for a mild case of pneumonia and chronic bronchitis. Months earlier, he was a Houston's Methodist Hospital for 16 days, also for pneumonia.

The nation's 41s president also was hospitalized in 2015 in Maine, where he and his wife spend summers at their home in Kennebunkport, after falling at home and breaking a bone in his neck. He was hospitalized in Houston in December 2014 for about a week for shortness of breath and spent Christmas 2012 in intensive care for a bronchitis-related cough and other issues.

Bush, who served as president from 1989 to 1993, has a form of Parkinson's disease and uses a motorized scooter or a wheelchair for mobility. He also served as a congressman, CIA director and Ronald Reagan's vice president.

Barbara Pierce Bush was born in Rye, N.Y. Her father was the publisher of McCall's and Redbook magazines. She married at age 19 while George Bush was a young naval aviator. After World War II, the Bushes moved to Texas where he went into the oil business.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Former First Lady Barbara Bush is making sure to keep her alma mater up to date on what's going on in her world.

The Boston Globe reports Thursday that Bush wrote a dispatch for Smith College's alumnae magazine this month saying she's "still old and still in love with the man I married 72 years ago."

Bush dropped out of Smith in 1944 and married George H.W. Bush shortly after. The school awarded her an honorary degree in 1989.

Bush says in the magazine that all of her children are working and "serving others in their own way." She says she's "very proud of them."

Bush has sent occasional updates to the alumnae publication going back to 1953 when it reported that her second son, Jeb, had been born.

___

Information from: The Boston Globe, http://www.bostonglobe.comBush Visits SMU Football Practice, Offers Supportive Words for Flood Victims

George W. Bush Honors Wounded Warriors by Painting Their Portraits

Jenna Bush Hager and Barbara Bush sat down with Dana Perino today to discuss growing up with their grandfather in the White House and their father in the spotlight.

The twin sisters, the only to children of President George W. Bush and former first lady Laura Bush, have teamed up on a new book, "Sisters First: Stories From Out Wild and Wonderful Life."

Perino said the book is "laugh out loud" funny and contains many stories from their time as members of the First Family.

Jenna said many times people say she and her sister "are so normal," crediting her parents with always reminding them about what mattered: faith, family and service, rather than fame or titles.

"We just want to use our voice to do good," she said.

W cracking a joke to Obama while Clinton gives a speech is me in middle school pic.twitter.com/Sw6uQwXRcf — Justin Taylor (@TheSmarmyBum) October 22, 2017

Perino brought up the sense of humor of the 43rd president, who made headlines a few days ago for cracking a joke to Barack Obama as Bill Clinton spoke at a hurricane relief concert.

"We know what he said, but we can't tell you," Jenna said.

The sisters were 19 when their father was elected President of the United States.

We also got to see a special recorded message to the sisters from their grandma, former first lady Barbara Bush.

Watch the sit-down above.

Liberals Plan to 'Scream Helplessly at the Sky' on Election Anniversary

Ivanka on Personal Attacks: Americans With Hardships Are the Real Ones Suffering'

Hannity: 'Robert Mueller Should Resign' From Russia Probe Over 'Conflict of Interest'When I was growing up, my mother, Barbara Bush, read to me every night.

I remember reaching out to turn the pages when I was very small, caught up in the wonder of each story and the vivid pictures that filled my imagination.

I was so fortunate to be raised in a household filled with books and—as you might imagine to be the case in the Bush home—plenty of conversation.

By filling my days with loving words and ending each one with a bedtime story, my mother not only helped me form wonderful childhood memories, but also cultivated vital language and literacy skills that prepared me for success in school—and in life.

Through a new partnership with Talk With Me Baby™, we’re encouraging parents to help build their babies’ brains in a simple, but incredibly important way: by talking to them.

Simply put, early learning matters. The first three years of life are a critical period for brain development. A baby’s brain grows an incredible 80 percent by 18 months of age, meaning that even the earliest learning experiences greatly influence a child’s development of language, literacy and social-emotional skills.

Research shows that children who are raised in language-rich environments—those who have ready access to books and whose caregivers talk with and read to them regularly—are far more likely to start school ready to succeed.

For nearly three decades, the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy has worked to help parents and children build brighter futures through literacy.

As we begin 2017, we’re committed to raising awareness about the importance of early learning, and providing parents with the knowledge and resources necessary to nurture their babies’ amazing brains.

Through a new partnership with Talk With Me Baby™, we’re encouraging parents to help build their babies’ brains in a simple, but incredibly important way: by talking to them. Both the quantity and quality of the words children hear during their first three years of life make an enormous difference in how prepared they are to start school, and ultimately, their long-term achievement.

Most people understand that the more words children are exposed to, the stronger their vocabularies will be. But fewer people are aware that the quality of the words also significantly affects brain development. In a single hour, children of higher educated parents hear five times more positive affirmations – verbal encouragement with the power to build self-confidence and bolster future academic performance – than the children of lower educated parents.

Talk With Me Baby is a public action campaign aimed at coaching parents and caregivers on “Language Nutrition”: language sufficiently rich in engagement, quality, quantity and context that it nourishes the child neurologically, socially and linguistically.

This early learning initiative is unique because it targets workforces with easy access to parents of infants – nurses and healthcare providers – who play a dedicated role in the care of mothers and babies, from months before labor to years after birth. In 2017, we’re excited to encourage more conversations between parents and babies nationwide by helping Talk With Me Baby expand this training to nurses across the country, both online and in-person.

I hope that some of those conversations will take place as parents and their babies settle down for a bedtime story like the ones my mother used to read to me.

Reading to babies creates such a special parent-child bond, and so strongly influences a child’s language skills that the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends that doctors and nurses routinely discuss it with parents during pediatric visits.

But we know that many families don’t have children’s books at home. They miss the chance to make those special childhood memories, and the opportunity to build stronger literacy skills.

This year, we’re working to change that by giving families much-needed bedtime story books. If you’d like to help families across the U.S. experience the joy of sharing a bedtime story, visit www.shareabedtimestory.org.

My mother has long said that “the home is the child’s first school and the parent is the child’s first teacher.”

In the coming year, we’re resolved to encourage and equip parents to be the very best teachers they can, right from the start.

Doro Bush Koch, daughter of former President George H.W. Bush and Barbara Bush, is honorary co-chairman of the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. Follow Doro on Twitter at @BarbaraBushFdn.[VIDEO CONTAINS GRAPHIC LANGUAGE]

FL Shooting Survivor: David Hogg's Comments 'Egregious and Inflammatory'

Tucker: 'March for Our Lives' Backed By the Wealthy, Demands 'You Be Punished for Crimes Others Committed'

Former Vice President Joe Biden clarified his remarks about taking President Donald Trump "behind the gym" and beating him up over remarks the New Yorker made about women.

Biden was being interviewed on the "Pod Save America" podcast, hosted by several former Obama administration officials, including senior adviser Daniel Pfeiffer and National Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor.

The hosts asked what Biden wanted to call his threatened scrum with Trump, offering up ideas like "The MAGA Saga" and "Scranton Squabble."

Though he represented Delaware in Congress, Biden is a native of the Pennsylvania city.

"I shouldn't have said what I said," Biden told the hosts. "I don't want to get down in the mosh pit with this guy."

He stressed the fact he said "if we were in high school" when referencing a fight with the president.

Biden reiterated that engaging in a physical duel with Trump is not what he meant -- and that he was instead objecting to the president's coarse vocabulary.

"I find the behavior and the talk vulgar," he said of comments Trump made on a 2006 tape in which he referenced grabbing women's genitals.

"Women are entitled to be treated with respect, d*** it," Biden said.

Watch more above.

NY Archbishop Timothy Dolan Says Dem Party Is 'Abandoning Catholics'

'Get Your Resume Ready': David Hogg Warns NRA-Supported Lawmakers of 2018 WaveCoulter: 'We Are Looking at the Death of America's Fundamental Freedoms'

Jeff Flake Warns of Impeachment Proceedings If Trump Fires Mueller

Former Vice President Joe Biden said Tuesday that instead of debating President Donald Trump about sexual assault, he would have taken him "behind the gym and beat the hell out of him" if the two were in high school together.

Biden’s comments came at the "It’s On Us" rally at the University of Miami, one that focused on stopping sexual assault on college campuses.

The Scranton, Pa. native cited Trump’s vulgar comments regarding grabbing women by their genitals, which surfaced in a video of the businessman and TV host Billy Bush during the 2016 election.

"I’ve been in a lot of locker rooms my whole life and a pretty damn good athlete," Biden went on to say. "Any guy who talked that way was usually the fattest, ugliest S.O.B. in the room."

The university later thanked Biden on Twitter and said the rally reminded them that "we are responsible for creating an environment where sexual assault and gender-based violence is unacceptable."

President Trump fired back at Biden Thursday morning, calling him "Crazy Joe Biden" and saying the former VP would "go down fast and hard."

Crazy Joe Biden is trying to act like a tough guy. Actually, he is weak, both mentally and physically, and yet he threatens me, for the second time, with physical assault. He doesn’t know me, but he would go down fast and hard, crying all the way. Don’t threaten people Joe! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 22, 2018

Lewandowski: Mueller Should Not Have a 'Blank Check to Investigate Anything'

Mark Levin Rips 'Bad Cops' Comey and McCabe: 'They Politicized the FBI'

Dershowitz: 'No Conceivable Reason' for Trump to Fire Mueller; Dems Fueling Speculation

Ingraham: 'If Any of Us Had Done What McCabe Did, We'd Already Be in Jail'Carrie Underwood posted the first close-up photo of her face Saturday night ahead of her performance at the Academy of Country Music Awards.

The country singer shared the photo hours after posting another distant photo of herself at rehearsal. Underwood’s Sunday performance will be her first public appearance since she suffered a nasty fall outside her Nashville home last November.

“Had a great rehearsal for the @acmawards ! Can’t wait until tomorrow night! #CryPretty #ACMAwards,” Underwood captioned the photo.

Underwood had said the “freak random accident” left her “not quite looking the same.” Saturday night’s photo, however, didn’t show any visible scars or marks on the 35-year-old’s face.

CARRIE UNDERWOOD SAYS HER FACE IS HEALING 'PRETTY NICELY,' WRIST IS 'ALMOST' BACK TO NORMAL SINCE FALL

The singer has been teasing her return to the spotlight since the start of the month. Underwood showed off her face in the first uncovered Instagram photo on April 4. The black and white picture only revealed half of her face, though she has kept most of her features below her nose under wraps since November.

She provided her fans an update last week, saying her wrist is almost back to normal and her face “has been healing pretty nicely” after receiving nearly 50 stitches from the fall.

A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Apr 4, 2018 at 8:01am PDT

“First off, physically, I’m doing pretty darn good these days! My wrist is almost back to normal, about 90% there…and the docs say that last 10% will come in time. And my face has been healing pretty nicely as well,” Underwood wrote. “I definitely feel more like myself than I have in a while.”

CARRIE UNDERWOOD SHARES ANOTHER DISTANT PHOTO OF FACE AHEAD OF ACM AWARDS

Underwood said the healing process has made her slow down — which she dubbed “forced relaxation” — and spend more time with her husband, Mike Fisher, and son, Isaiah. She called it a silver lining to the fall.

“Sometimes I think things happen in order to make us slow down. It also means I’ve been home to support my favorite hockey player coming out of retirement!” Underwood said, referring to Fisher’s return to the Nashville Predators.

Underwood is expected on Sunday night to perform her song “Cry Pretty,” the single released last week off her upcoming album.

At this year's award ceremony, the singer is nominated for two awards, Best Female Vocalist of the Year and Best Vocal Event of the year.Carrie Underwood has spoken out after reportedly falling on steps outside her home in Nashville last week.

The fall took place on Friday night, according to The Tennessean, and forced her to skip the Country Rising Concert Sunday night.

A statement from an Underwood spokesperson said the singer has been treated and released from a hospital for a broken wrist, cuts and abrasions, the paper says.

"Thanks so much for all the well wishes everybody...I’ll be alright...might just take some time...glad I’ve got the best hubby in the world to take care of me," Underwood tweeted Sunday.

Underwood's spouse Mike Fisher went to Nashville to be with her, per the report.

Dierks Bentley, Sam Hunt and Keith Urban were some of the performers at the Sunday benefit event in Nashville.

Underwood co-hosted the CMA Awards alongside Brad Paisley in Nashville on Wednesday night. It was the tenth consecutive time Underwood and Paisley emceed the awards show.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Philadelphia’s top cop defended the actions of his officers on Saturday after a viral video showed two black men being arrested for refusing to leave a Starbucks when a store employee denied them access to the restroom.

In a video posted on Facebook, Philadelphia Police Department Commissioner Richard Ross said officers received a trespassing call from Starbucks after the men allegedly used the restroom without making a purchase, which goes against company policy.

The men were asked by officers to leave, but refused and subsequently detained, Ross said in the video.

“The police did not just happen upon this event, they did not just walk into Starbucks to get a coffee,” he said. “They were called there, for a service, and that service had to do with quelling a disturbance, a disturbance that had to do with trespassing."

Ross said the officers "followed policy" and did what they were supposed to do.

"These officers did absolutely nothing wrong," he said.

Ross, who is black, said the department makes sure that officers receive "implicit bias training."

"I will say, that as an African-American male, I am very aware of implicit bias," Ross says in the Facebook video. "We are committed to fair and unbiased policing and anything less than that will not be tolerated in this department."

The city's top cop added that there was a case involving a Philadelphia officer who went to Starbucks who was also denied access to the restroom, even though he was in full uniform.

"They are at least consistent in their policy," Ross said.

In the viral video of the incident, which was posted to Twitter and has nearly 9 million views as of Sunday afternoon, at least six officers put the men in handcuffs and take them into custody without resistance.

STARBUCKS ISSUES APOLOGY OVER ARREST OF TWO MEN

The CEO of Starbucks, Kevin Johnson, said in a statement on Saturday he wants to personally apologize to the men, adding that the company "stands firmly against discrimination or racial profiling."

Johnson's statement didn't address exactly what led to the police call, but a Starbucks spokeswoman said the store where the arrests occurred has a policy that restrooms were for paying customers only. In the video, no Starbucks items are visible in front of either of the men.

Johnson said the company's practices and training led to a "bad outcome," and the reason for the call that brought police into the shop was incorrect.

"Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did," said the statement. Johnson said videos of the arrest were "very hard to watch," and the company was investigating.

"We also will further train our partners to better know when police assistance is warranted," said Johnson. "Additionally, we will host a company-wide meeting next week to share our learnings, discuss some immediate next steps and underscore our long-standing commitment to treating one another with respect and dignity."

The incident has sparked outrage online, and drew the response from Philadelphia native and comedian Kevin Hart.

"Message to the @Starbucks in Philadelphia....Our city is shining bright like a diamond right now. Please make this situation right. I repeat please make this situation right!!!!!!! Once again MAKE THIS RIGHT," he tweeted Sunday.

Hart also questioned why the men were arrested in the first place.

"@Starbucks in Philadelphia I have watched the video and do not see these to young men doing anything wrong....Unless there is footage that shows otherwise you need to do what's right and handle the manager that was on duty accordingly," Hart said.

Tennis icon Billie Jean King, whose organization, the Billie Jean King’s Leadership Initiative, recently partnered with Starbucks to support "global gender pay equity," called the incident "deeply troubling."

"The arrest of 2 African-American men in a Philadelphia @Starbucks is deeply troubling," she said on Twitter. "This event is not representative of how Starbucks operates. Kevin Johnson’s apology & actions are a good 1st step. An investigation will follow, and we should give them the time to do it."

Protesters gathered outside the Starbucks in question Sunday in solidarity with the two men arrested, according to FOX29.

Fox News’ Paulina Dedaj contributed to this report.The 911 dispatching system may have malfunctioned in the moments before an Ohio teenager called as he was being crushed to death in a minivan, the Cincinnati Police Department's union president said Saturday.

Fraternal Order of Police President Daniel Hils told FOX 19 the computer-aided dispatch system may have went down as Kyle Plush called 911 two times after being trapped inside the minivan at the parking lot of his school.

“This is not something that I think is terribly unusual. I mean electronic systems break down, they have to reboot, and they have to do different things,” he said.

In the event of a system failure, Hils told FOX 19 that the dispatch center would then have to relay messages by hand in order to get calls out.

“They do it how they did it in the old days, write it down on an index card and the card is handed to someone somehow sending the person dispatching on that channel," he said.

Plush suffocated after he became trapped under the third-row seat that flipped and pinned him while he was trying to reach his tennis equipment. The teenager told 911 operators where he was located, but authorities were not able to find him. A deputy sent to the scene soon after called in to report that he couldn’t find anyone trapped in a van, and questioned if the call had been a prank.

911 DISPATCHER WHO ANSWERED CALL FROM BOY CRUSHED BY MINIVAN SEAT COMPLAINED ABOUT JOB DAYS BEFORE INCIDENT

Police said Amber Smith, the 911 operator who answered Plush’s second call, failed to relay information to the additional officers who were at the scene.

During the call, Plush explained to Smith the call was not a joke.

"I am trapped inside my gold Honda Odyssey van in the parking lot of the Seven Hills...Send officers immediately," Plush pleaded. "I’m almost dead.”

Smith, who has been a 911 operator for four years, will return to work on Wednesday while an internal investigation is under way. She told supervisors her computer froze and she was unable to put information into the system.

She previously spoke about her job on her personal Facebook page a few times, including a post in May 2017 “venting” about how working overtime makes her and her co-workers “hate our job," the Cincinnati Enquirer reported.

A confidential police review obtained by FOX 19 also noted that Smith told superiors she couldn't hear the 16-year-old during the 911 call. She also received a 60 percent on her call review, which is considered unacceptable.

“Only the investigation will reveal if it was the people or the hardware or a combination of both. We just don’t know yet,” Hils told FOX 19.

OHIO TEEN CRUSHED TO DEATH BY MINIVAN SEAT WAS 'FUNNY, SMART AND POSITIVE,' FAMILY SAYS

Cincinnati’s 911 system has been plagued with problems over the past few years, with five directors and a budget cut by $400,000 since 2016, according to the Enquirer. Records showed the center needed 17 dispatchers and 15 operators, the paper reported.

Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley and other elected officials are now calling for a review of the city's emergency communications center.

"While it is unclear if there is wrongdoing by the city in this tragedy, we have a profound responsibility to find out," Cranley said in a statement on Thursday. I applaud Police Chief Eliot Isaac for launching an investigation on the specific issues that happened Tuesday. However, separate from this incident, the problems of management, supervision and technology have been reported at the 911 center for years."

The Hamilton County coroner ruled Plush's death an accidental asphyxia due to chest compression. Family and friends will gather to remember the teen Sunday before his funeral is held Monday.

Fox News' Kathleen Joyce and Madeline Fish contributed to this report.Philadelphia Eagles cornerback Daryl Worley was shocked with a stun gun and arrested Sunday morning when he became combative after police found him sleeping in a vehicle blocking a highway, according to a report.

Worley was arrested after police received a 911 call about a vehicle blocking a highway in Philadelphia, according to an NFL Network report.

According to the report, the 23-year-old was found passed out in the vehicle and subdued with a stun gun after he became combative. A gun was recovered at the scene.

The arrest was reported to have taken place at 6 a.m. Sunday.

The location of the arrest was said to have been near the team’s facility.

The Eagles issued a statement saying the team was in the “process of gathering more information about Daryl Worley's arrest this morning."

Worley was traded from the Carolina Panthers to the Eagles last month for wide receiver Torrey Smith.

He had a previous run-in with the law, back in college when he got into an altercation with a woman outside a nightclub, Philly.com reported. Worley said he was defending his girlfriend.

He pleaded no contest in that case and received a six-month suspended sentence.Two black bear cubs have their full lives ahead of them thanks to the help of a Virginia State Trooper on Thursday.

The law enforcement agency said Trooper DH Cepelnik rescued the cubs after their mother was struck and killed by a vehicle in Franklin County, located south of Roanoke.

Cepelnik was "#JustDoingHisJob" when he rescued the two small animals, police posted on Twitter.

The two cubs are now safe and sound, and are receiving care at the Wildlife Center of Virginia.A chili grower defended the world’s hottest pepper called the “Carolina Reaper” following a report about a man who was hospitalized after eating the extremely spicy fruit at a contest.

Salvatore Genovese, who grows the world’s hottest chili on his British farm, told Sky News on Sunday the pepper needs to be “correctly” cooked and eaten to prevent health problems.

"We have sold, in the past couple of years or so, over half a million Carolina reapers and I have never had any knowledge or any complaint of anyone having to be hospitalized,” Genovese told Sky News. "It's not really designed to...just plonk it in your mouth and eat it…I would never do that and I wouldn't recommend it.”

"Just cook with it, make a curry, infuse it slowly take it out if you want to afterwards, and get the rich flavors from that super-hot chili,” he added.

MAN WHO ATE WORLD'S HOTTEST CHILI IS HOSPITALIZED WITH EXCRUCIATING HEADACHES

A report released last week by British Medical Journal detailed a 34-year-old man’s mistake of biting into the so-called “Carolina Reaper” -- which led to his hospitalization. The man, who was not identified, ate the pepper at a 2016 chili eating contest in upstate New York.

After he ingested the chili, he began dry heaving and developed intense neck and head pain that spread from his back to his head. He also had “thunderclap” headaches, described as “a blinding pain” that would last seconds at a time.

The man was diagnosed with reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome, a temporary brain condition caused by the narrowing of blood vessels.

Genovese said the pepper should be used and eaten accordingly to prevent health issues.

"The way I always put it, is treat it like salt. You're not going to take a handful of salt and put it in your food and say 'wow I've got a wicked salt kick'. Just use small amounts, use accordingly,” he said.

The medical report also stated this was the first time a person was hospitalized for eating a chili.

Shahina Waseem, called Britain’s “Chili Queen,” also defended eating the Carolina Reaper and said the pain usually doesn’t last for a prolonged period — though she did admit eating the pepper makes her feel like she’s “dying” for a bit.

"You start from mild to the hottest chilies, you go through 13 or 14 rounds, and then you end up with the Carolina Reaper and then it does get you,” she said. "For me the pain would last an hour or two hours max. I have heard of people suffering afterwards — for me it's not so bad afterwards, but during the competition I feel like I'm dying."Three people had to be rescued after their boat rammed into a jetty in Florida on Friday near the spot where the late Miami Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez and two others died in a boating crash in 2016.

The Miami-Dade Fire Rescue Department said the boaters were stranded on the southwest rocks of Government Cut, a shipping channel that connects Biscayne Bay to the Atlantic Ocean, after the boat crashed into the jetty.

Video posted by the agency on Twitter shows rescuers working to get the people off the damaged boat, pulling them through the dangerous current onto a fireboat.

A man and his son who saw the boat go airborne told WSVN the force of the impact caused the vessel to almost overturn.

“That jetty is visible," Jett Forsythe told the television station. "There’s no way that they shouldn’t have seen it."

Jett said the whole incident was "insane."

“He hit at probably 40 miles an hour, jumped the boat out of the water completely," he told WSVN.

Fire officials said all three boaters were assessed at the Coast Guard base in Miami Beach, and one was transported to a hospital with injuries that were not life-threatening.

LATE MIAMI MARLINS PITCHER JOSE FERNANDEZ WAS FRAMED IN DEADLY BOAT CRASH PROBE, LAWYER CLAIMS

The incident on Friday happened near where Fernandez and two others died in a boating crash in 2016, which took place on the north side of the Government Cut.

In a report last year by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation, officials said Fernandez’s boat was traveling southwest from the Atlantic Ocean before colliding with the jetty at a high-rate of speed. The boat landed upside down, killing Fernandez in addition to Eduardo Rivero, 25, and 27-year-old Emilio Jesus Macias.

A toxicology report also stated drugs and alcohol were a factor in the fatal crash, with cocaine found in Fernandez’s system at the time of the accident.

An attorney representing the late pitcher recently claimed investigators prematurely concluded Fernandez was responsible, and then altered or ignored evidence to the contrary. Macias and Rivero’s estates are suiting Fernandez’s estate for $2 million apiece.

While the cause of the most recent crash remains under investigation, Miami fire officials are reminding everyone that "boating at night should only be done by expert navigators and to make sure you have the appropriate safety equipment any time you go out on the water. Remember to slow down & never drink alcohol if you are operating a boat."

Fox News' Ryan Gaydos contributed to this report.Kelly Kraft got a birdie, just not the one he wanted at the RBC Heritage.

Kraft's ball hit a bird in flight on the par-3 14th hole, and the ball dropped into the water in front of the green.

The 29-year-old made double bogey and finished at 1-over par on Harbour Town Golf Links, missing the cut by a stroke.

Kraft told PGATour.com the bad break cost him the cut. He said his tee shot felt perfect and was on a good line until fate took over.

"It cost me the cut, most likely," he said. "There was a helping wind, and I hit a 7-iron, caught it perfect.

"It was probably 30 yards off the tee box and this giant, black bird swooped in front of it and hit it and the ball fell 20 yards short in the water.

"It would've been in the middle of the green. It might have been close. I got screwed."

Kraft's group asked for a ruling, figuring the player would simply re-tee without penalty. Instead, because the bird is not a man-made object, Kraft had to play it as a ball in the water.

The Texan said a large black bird flew off unharmed after it was hit with the glancing blow.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Editor's note: This article first appeared in The Hill.

The raid on President Trump’s lawyer dramatically demonstrates the need for new legislation to assure that no FBI agents or U.S. attorneys ever get to read privileged communications between a lawyer and a client, a doctor and patient, a priest and penitent, or a husband and wife. Under current law, confidential material is read or listened to by a taint team comprised of FBI agents and prosecutors. The taint team then sends over to prosecutors all non-privileged material. But a number of FBI agents and prosecutors have already read and listened to the privileged material. They must be trusted not to leak it or misuse it in any way. Even if they don’t, the very fact that government agents have been given access to the most confidential and sacred materials should trouble every American.

There may be no perfect solution to this dilemma. Because the government does have the right to seize material that is not privileged, and such material may be comingled with privileged material.

There is a better and safer way to deal with this issue than the current approach of using prosecutors and FBI agents to do the sifting. A law should be enacted under which anytime the government is seeking to search an office or home that may contain confidential and privileged information, the search team must be accompanied by a judicial officer – a judge, a magistrate or someone appointed to fulfill that function.

That judicial officer should be the only one ever to read material that is eventually deemed to be confidential. A judge can be trusted not to leak far better than FBI agents or prosecutors. And if a judge were to leak, it would be easy to identify the source of the unlawful disclosure, since the single judge would be the only one to have access to the confidential material.

This procedure might be somewhat more cumbersome and expensive than the current "taint team" approach, but it would provide much better safeguards to the fundamental rights that we as Americans possess. The taint team could be retained in the context for which it was originally developed: to prevent potential violations of the Fifth Amendment by the use of immunized self-criminating testimony. Taint teams should never be used in the context of the Fourth or Sixth Amendment, because the privacy and confidentiality at stake there is very different than those at stake under the Fifth Amendment. The Fifth Amendment merely prohibits the use of illegally obtained self-incriminatory information at the defendant’s criminal trial. The Fourth Amendment prohibits unlawful intrusions into the privacy of any American, and the Sixth Amendment implicitly prohibits violations of the lawyer/client privilege. Such violations occur the moment private or confidential information is viewed by government agents, regardless whether it is ultimately used in a criminal trial.

When I proposed this new law on CNN, Jeffrey Toobin responded that lawyers, doctors, penitents and spouses are not above the law, and if there is probable cause to believe they may have committed a crime, it should be permissible to search their records without the direct supervision of a judge. But with due respect to my former student, that answer misses the point. The focus of my proposed law is not on the privacy rights of guilty lawyers, doctors, priests and spouses. Its focus is on the privacy and confidentiality rights of their innocent clients, patients, penitents and spouses. The proposed law is intended to protect the rights of these innocent bystanders. The legitimate confidentiality right of innocent people must be given priority over any inconvenience that might be caused by requiring a judge to be the one to filter out protected communications.

My proposed law would not prevent the government from seizing incriminating evidence from guilty lawyers, doctors, penitents or spouses, so long as the evidence was not covered by a legitimate privilege. It would put prosecutors in the same position they are in today: they would not be able to use information that was ultimately deemed to be privileged. But it would protect the innocent clients, patients, penitents, and spouses from having their private and confidential information reviewed by FBI agents and prosecutors who might well leak the information or misuse it in other ways.

Congress should seriously consider enacting such a law, not to help Donald Trump, but to protect the constitutional rights of all Americans whose private and confidential communications are now reviewed by taint teams comprised of FBI agents and prosecutors. All Americans should support this reasonable protection.President Trump was able to declare "mission accomplished" by tweet just hours after a missile attack by the U.S., Britain and France struck three key chemical weapons facilities in Syria early Saturday because the strike was limited, clearly defined and multilaterally endorsed.

And the attack was aimed at a single vital objective: restoring an increasingly ignored red line against the use of chemical weapons.

The attack was not aimed at toppling the regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad, who continues to share the U.S. goal of defeating the Islamic State terrorist group. Nor did it target Syria's enablers, Iran and Russia, both of whom have a significant troop presence and other assets in Syria.

At the same time, the Trump administration was correct in blaming Russia and Iran for undermining the once universally respected ban on the use chemical weapons, particularly against civilians.

While Trump has said he will pursue additional measures should Assad not mend his chemical weapons ways, his declaration that our troops in Syria would soon be withdrawn may have prompted Assad to conclude that he could use chemical weapons against his citizens without penalty.

On 12 occasions, Russia has vetoed United Nations Security Council resolutions aimed at condemning such Syrian military excesses and its persistent flaunting of international law in the 7-year-old civil war.

In announcing the strikes, President Trump also abandoned his habitual reluctance to blame Russia for helping foment such aggression. Not mincing words, the president warned Russia against its continued indifference to its client’s violation of international rules and norms.

Speaking from a Latin American summit Saturday, Vice President Mike Pence reinforced President Trump’s message by saying that Russia was on “the wrong side of history” in tolerating the use of chemical weapons and other weapons of mass destruction.

The missile attack took place at 4 a.m. Saturday Syrian time, and on the night of Friday the 13th in the U.S. It differed significantly from the last U.S. strike on the Shayrat air base in relatively unpopulated part of Syria a year ago.

Defense Secretary James Mattis declared a day after that earlier strike that 20 percent of Syria's operational aircraft had been destroyed and that Syria had lost the ability to launch a chemical weapons attack on its own people. But the Assad regime began using chemical weapons within four months of the strike.

The April 7, 2017 strike, moreover, was a unilateral American action that targeted only one part of the single airbase from which an earlier chemical attack had been launched.

This weekend’s strike, by contrast, was a joint American-British-French action that targeted three key chemical weapons research, production, and storage facilities, including the infamous Syrian Scientific Research Complex.

Andrew Weber, a former senior Pentagon official and President Obama’s adviser on weapons of mass destruction calls that research complex the “brain of the entire Syrian chemical and biological weapons program.”

The destruction of the research complex – which included a laboratory, research and development center, and an administrative headquarters – has set back Syria's chemical weapons and biological weapons program by years, Weber said, echoing the Pentagon's "after battle assessment."

President Trump's blunt criticism of Russia reflects an increasingly tough attitude towards Moscow by a president, who has been notoriously reluctant to criticize Russian President Vladimir Putin, his repression at home and aggression abroad.

While President Trump still seems hesitant to blame Putin personally for Russia's provocations, his administration has enacted increasingly tough measures to contain Moscow.

The Trump administration, for instance, has recently authorized the sale of defensive weapons to Ukraine, which Russia invaded and partly occupies.

The U.S. has also imposed sanctions not only against Russian state-owned institutions, but against more than a dozen oligarchs close to Putin.

In response to an alleged use of nerve gas against a former Russia spy and his daughter in Salisbury, England, Washington has expelled dozens of diplomats and closed, or kept closed Russian compounds and facilities.

And now the U.S. has warned Moscow that it will be held responsible for the use of chemical weapons in Syria.

If Russia fails to get the message, President Trump vowed Friday that additional punishment seems likely.

“Future strikes, if needed," Weber said in an interview, "should target regime aviation and command and control assets used to commit chemical crimes against humanity.”

President Trump also said that in addition to further military strikes, if necessary, he would respond with additional economic and diplomatic measures. But if the administration has a broader strategy towards Syria, most experts cannot discern it.

The Syrian war cannot be ended by military measures alone, warned Ryan Crocker, a former U.S. ambassador to Damascus. Nor does the administration seem to have a plan for containing and reducing Russia's and Iran's presence and influence in Syria.

President Trump has sent mixed signals about his own intentions. While he said he will pursue additional measures should Assad not mend his chemical weapons ways, his declaration two weeks earlier that America's 2,000 troops in Syria would soon be withdrawn may have prompted Assad to conclude that he could use chemical weapons against his citizens without penalty.

As long as President Trump’s intentions remain so muddled, the message he intends to send to Syria and its patrons risks falling on deaf ears.President Trump’s calibrated and courageous decision to join France and Britain in striking chemical weapons targets in Syria before dawn Saturday drew support and opposition from members of Congress. Opponents have argued he should have sought congressional authorization for the military action in Syria. They are wrong.

President Trump’s action to attack Syria was exceptionally well-grounded legally. Self-evident moral authority supports using any reasonable means to protect innocents from the moral outrage of chemical weapons.

Ahead of the attack, Vice President Mike Pence personally notified House Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis.; House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.; and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky. He could not reach Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. He confirmed the limited nature, objectives and duration of the Syrian strike.

As Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and other U.S. officials made clear, America and our allies mounted a “one-off” attack to deter any future use of chemical weapons by Syria, a prerogative fully supported by international law.

President Trump’s thoughtful, well-planned, narrowly drawn and superbly executed strike on Syrian chemical weapons facilities wasted no time, ordnance or lives. Its purpose was clear, well-stated and well-served. It should be non-controversial. Still, he is attacked.

Neither President Trump nor anyone in his administration has suggested the onset of a long American military combat commitment in Syria.

But U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley reaffirmed America’s resolve to prevent any further use of chemical weapons. She said Saturday at the U.N.: “I spoke to the president this morning, and he said, ‘If the Syrian regime uses this poisonous gas again, the United States is locked and loaded.’”

Nevertheless, leading Democrats have been vocal in demanding congressional approval for any U.S. military involvement in Syria.

Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., the Democratic nominee for vice president in 2016, was quick to tweet: “Trump’s decision to launch airstrikes against Syria without Congress’ approval is illegal. We need to stop giving presidents a blank check to wage war. Today it’s Syria, but what’s going to stop him from bombing Iran or North Korea next?”

Kaine’s tweet is legally inept, and all but laughable, given that President Bill Clinton – husband of Kaine’s 2016 running mate, Hillary Clinton – undertook a long series of air strikes in Kosovo and elsewhere, without any congressional authorization or pretense to getting it.

Let’s cut to the nub: The 1973 War Powers Resolution was intended to dissuade presidents from long-duration combat engagements and insertion of large numbers of U.S. troops. The law grew out of a decade of U.S. combat in Vietnam. It presumes to require that presidents get congressional approval for military combat operations if they last more than 60 days.

Most legal scholars consider parts of the law unconstitutional. Presidents of both parties have generally demurred. No president has acceded to the law’s constitutionality.

That said, the interplay of executive and legislative branches on military matters – reflecting the constitutional balance between the Article II “commander-in-chief” powers and Congress’s Article I “declaration of war” powers – has always been respectful since Vietnam.

It was this time, also.

Yet some members of Congress still contend the War Powers Resolution has been triggered, or that President Trump must report to them before another strike.

This is nonsense. No president has been held to that standard, effectively transmuting the commander-in-chief’s authority to conduct limited duration, surgical strikes – consistent under international law and with allies – into a congressional prerogative.

Even the Authorization of Use of Military Force Act of 2001 – enacted after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks – is not relevant here. That law was intended to address, and thus authorized, counterterrorism operations on a major scale, within set limits.

The law, which has been roundly criticized in recent years, opened the door to attacks on state and non-state actors tied back to the Sept. 11 attacks – but without a time limit. Whatever one thinks of the law, our attack in Syria is not that kind of operation, nor is any such mass deployment in Syria under discussion.

Still, critics in Congress demand President Trump defend his Syria action and come to them for permission. They want, it seems, to further limit the president’s already limited ability to use the U.S. military to defend our nation, forcing him to get their authorization for what he did and any strikes that may lie ahead.

Frankly, this is unnecessary, wildly premature at best, and somewhat embarrassing.

Congressional Democrats seem unable to stop themselves. They must attack this president. It is now an article of faith with the party, even if not backed up by the Constitution.

President Trump’s thoughtful, well-planned, narrowly drawn and superbly executed strike on Syrian chemical weapons facilities wasted no time, ordnance or lives. Its purpose was clear, well-stated and well-served. It should be non-controversial. Still, he is attacked.

Famously, Sen. Arthur Vandenberg, R-Mich., said in 1947 that “we must stop partisan politics at the water’s edge,” explaining his support for Democratic President Harry Truman’s foreign policy.

Where has that traditional consensus gone? Democrats senselessly pile on, joined by a small band of anti-Trump Republicans. The specter of such internal division is odd. It must be to our allies.

Be sure of this: These frivolous claims of illegality are watched, maybe even fanned, by our worst adversaries. Anything that divides us helps them.

Some days, the head spins listening to official Washington go to war with itself. In this instance, leading Democratic critics of President Trump cannot just say “thank you and well done.”

They must, it seems, twist this legally justified, masterfully concluded operation – one that serves the best-long term interests of America and the world – into an act worthy of partisan resistance.

When will this stop? When will we think again, as Vandenberg did, about the importance of unity for national security, national security for preserving moral values, and both as a way for making the world a better, safer place? If not a consensus around this event, then when?

For his extraordinary, thoughtful and entirely legal strike on Syria’s chemical weapons infrastructure – establishing a new and higher level of credible deterrence to make the world a safer place – President Trump deserves our thanks, not our condemnation or attempts to limit his lawful authority as the commander-in-chief.Amal Clooney may be a brilliant international lawyer, but she appears to have no clue she is staying in a shady Soho rental.

The glamorous human-rights jurist and hubby George Clooney are living in a Sullivan Street townhouse that has recently been hit with multiple violations for operating an illegal transient hotel, The Post has learned.

The red-brick federal-style building that boasts two luxury rentals is less than two blocks away from Vogue editor Anna Wintour’s home. Amal Clooney, 40, is Wintour’s pal, co-chair of next month’s swanky Met Gala and appears on the May cover of the magazine.

The London-based barrister is in the city for a stint as a guest professor at Columbia Law School and to help Wintour plan the annual fundraiser for the Metropolitan Museum’s Costume Institute.

Over the last week, Clooney has dazzled the paparazzi with an array of designer outfits as she leaves the townhouse, where a one-bedroom apartment was on the rental market for $9,000 a month, according to listings. Husband George also has been seen exiting the building.

But last month, the city slapped owner Richard Fertig with four violations for a basement apartment that was “illegally converted to transient use” without the required fire alarm, exits or certificate of occupancy.

The duplex ground-floor and basement apartment, which boasts a wine cellar and chef’s kitchen was raided by the city’s Buildings Department last month while musician John Legend and his model wife, Chrissy Teigen, were living in the building, according to press reports.

Legend and his pregnant wife, who is due in June, left the row house in haste last month after police and city officials entered the building. Teigen was wearing a bathrobe and slippers when she abruptly left.

An e-mail to Clooney’s assistant at Columbia University went unanswered last week, but a spokeswoman from onefinestay in London, which rents short-term lodgings on behalf of clients around the world, said the company “follows all local regulations.” She would not comment on whether the Clooneys were staying in the townhouse. On trips to the city in the past, the Clooneys have stayed at the swanky Carlyle Hotel.

Fertig, a former hedge-fund manager who describes himself in a YouTube video as a “serial entrepreneur” and an “Airbnb super host,” runs Short Term Rental University and provides online tips about how to maximize profits by renting out “rooms in your home” on vacation short-term stay sites. He said he has six luxury properties that he rents out on Airbnb and VRBO, according to a YouTube post.

City rules prohibit building owners from engaging in short-term rentals — for less than 30 days — unless they live on the premises. Fertig owns a home in the Hamptons in addition to the Sullivan Street townhouse, public records show.

A Department of Buildings hearing on the violations is scheduled for Thursday.

A spokesman for the mayor’s office said the city is carrying out “aggressive enforcement” against landlords who break the law.

“In many cases, guests are also victims of fraudulent marketing and are being illegally rented units that are not set up for short-term stays, which is potentially dangerous,” said Patrick Gallahue, a City Hall spokesman.

According to the city’s complaint, the basement apartment is “illegally converted . . . to transient use without required egress and fire alarm.”

Fertig, who has owned the Sullivan Street property since 2007, did not return requests for comment.

David Pressman, who represents the Clooneys, did not return a call for comment.

This article originally appeared in Page Six.After a wobbly start, Dwayne Johnson muscled his way to a No. 1 opening for "Rampage" — but just barely. Close on its heels was the word-of-mouth sensation "A Quiet Place" in its second week in theaters, and not too far behind that was the Blumhouse horror "Truth or Dare" in a competitive weekend at the box office.

Warner Bros. said Sunday that "Rampage" earned an estimated $34.5 million in its first weekend in North American theaters, and dominated internationally too with $114.1 million from 61 territories.

Based on the classic arcade game, "Rampage" carried a sizable budget of at least $115 million. Although "Rampage" pulled in mixed reviews (it's at 50 percent on Rotten Tomatoes), audiences were more enthusiastic, giving it an A- CinemaScore.

"I wasn't sure how I was going to feel on Friday. But when I look at our global number of $148.6 million, there's a lot to be proud of for Dwayne Johnson," said Warner Bros. president of domestic distribution Jeff Goldstein. "Talk about a real closer, he knows how to bring it home."

That Friday, of course, was Friday the 13th and audiences had the choice between two wide-release nail-biters to spend their entertainment dollars on — the buzzy thriller "A Quiet Place" that dominated the charts last weekend, and the new horror from the shop behind "Get Out" and "Split," ''Truth or Dare."

After its stunning debut, John Krasinski's modestly-budgeted "A Quiet Place" fell only 35 percent in weekend two, adding $32.6 million to its domestic total, which is now just shy of $100 million for Paramount Pictures.

"Truth or Dare" also found a sizable audience that was mostly young (60 percent under the age of 25) and female (60 percent). The PG-13 rated pic stars "Pretty Little Liars" alum Lucy Hale.

With a budget of just $3.5 million, the film took in a terrific $19.1 million over the weekend — just the latest in a string of successes for the Blumhouse and Universal Pictures partnership.

"They take high quality filmmaking at micro-budgets and just consistently over-deliver," said Jim Orr, Universal's president of domestic distribution. "Everyone at Universal is just thrilled to be in business with these guys."

Orr said despite the competitive marketplace, the studio's marketing found a lane with the younger female audience and played into the Friday the 13th release.

Sliding into fourth place was Steven Spielberg's "Ready Player One," with $11.2 million in its third weekend, and in fifth was the R-rated comedy "Blockers," with $10.3 million.

Also, after a limited release, Wes Anderson's stop-motion animated "Isle of Dogs" added 1,385 locations and took the No. 7 spot with $5 million. Chloe Zhao's well-reviewed indie "The Rider" also debuted this weekend in three theaters with $45,268.

While the success of a horror, especially a micro-budget one, isn't a surprise for the industry, big budget films like "Rampage" continue to face a complex marketplace. For box office analysts like comScore's Paul Dergarabedian, "Rampage's" performance fits into the post-"Black Panther" narrative for most would-be blockbusters that have followed the Marvel and Disney phenomenon.

"'Rampage' joins a long list of popcorn movies that have opened in the wake of 'Black Panther' to rely heavily on their international box office revenues," Dergarabedian said, citing "A Wrinkle in Time," ''Tomb Raider," ''Pacific Rim: Uprising" and "Ready Player One" as recent examples.

Disney and Marvel's "Black Panther" added $5.3 million in its ninth weekend in theaters, bringing its domestic total to $673.8 million.

It's another down weekend for the industry, too. The same weekend last year saw the massive $98.8 million opening for "The Fate of the Furious." ComScore reports that the year to date box office is down just over 2 percent. But the tide could be turning soon.

"We're just in this lull waiting for 'Avengers: Infinity War' that is going to blow the doors off of the box office in a little less than two weeks," Dergarabedian said.

Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to comScore. Final domestic figures will be released Monday.

1."Rampage," $34.5 million.

2."A Quiet Place," $32.6 million.

3."Truth or Dare," $19.1 million.

4."Ready Player One," $11.2 million.

5."Blockers," $10.3 million.

6."Black Panther," $5.3 million.

7."Isle of Dogs," $5 million.

8."I Can Only Imagine," $3.8 million.

9."Tyler Perry's Acrimony," $3.7 million.

10."Chappaquiddick," $3 million.There are so many awesome features tucked into our smartphones that we are constantly discovering new options – except they’re often not new. They’ve been there the whole time waiting to be used or in most cases, discovered.

Some folks have no idea they can silence their phone at night except for emergencies. Others don’t realize they can snap a picture with the volume button, use a phone as a magnifying glass, or a photo scanner. Click here if you want to know how to master these tricks.

We’re so busy downloading apps that we overlook the built-in options that can spare us time, headaches, and frustrations. For example, you can still make a phone call if you have a bad cell connection. Click here the smartphone trick for clearer calls even when you have a bad signal.

Here are three smartphone tricks that you wish you’d known all along. Luckily, it’s not too late to take advantage.

1. Out of Office Messages for Smartphones

Whenever we leave work for a few days, we usually create an automated email message. “I will be out of the office from June 21st until…” Such messages are helpful, both for you and for everyone trying to get in touch.

Sometimes, we leave our calling area as well. We may be taking a cruise to Antarctica. We may be hiking in the woods. Perhaps we just want to unplug for a little while. So you would think that smartphones have the same feature, and that it would be easy to use.

You’re half right: this feature does exist, but it’s a little hard to figure out on your own. Here are two ways to do it, on iPhones and Androids:

iPhone

Apple calls this feature “Automatic Reply,” and it can be found in your Settings. As with regular email, you can set an end date when you have presumably returned to civilization and can return calls.

Android

For Google products, this feature is called “Out of Office,” and it works the same way. Here you’ll find it in the Menu.

Click here for the precise instructions for setting an "Out of Office" message on your smartphone.

2. How to Prevent “Butt Dial”

The term “butt dial” may sound a little crass but there’s little “behind” this phrase: people have been inadvertently calling each other since the dawn of cell phone technology and it’s usually because they sit down on their phone’s keypad. In all fairness, any unlocked phone has the potential to dial a saved number, or call someone back, because some part of your body pressed the wrong buttons by accident.

Today, smartphone users can usually prevent the physical dialing. There are other ways to embarrass yourself with a smartphone, such as catching the attention of Siri or Google Assistant.

Disable “Hey Siri”

Activating your iPhone by saying “Hey Siri” has wowed many iPhone users. This “wake phrase” is pretty cool but only if you’re skilled at using it. You don’t want to wake Siri up by saying something similar (“Hey, Silly,” etc.)

People have been known to make calls they didn’t intend just because Siri thought they were asking to place a call. Perhaps the best solution is to switch off the “Hey Siri” feature when your phone is locked.

Disable Google Assistant

You can also switch off Google Assistant and prevent any unexpected interactions by accessing your Settings.

Click here for specific instructions on how to make sure your butt-dialing days are over.

3. Prevent People from Snooping on Your Phone

People can be nosy, even those closest to you. Some can’t help themselves. No matter how much they respect your privacy they can’t help but glance at your phone when you’re tapping out a text message.

The easiest way to prevent eavesdroppers is to keep your phone locked at all times and avoid loaning your phone to anyone. Old-fashioned phones were a little more trustworthy because all they could do was make calls. Your smartphone is a treasure trove of personal information.

Even a locked phone can give away information, if you have push notifications. Anyone can see the name of the person texting you, plus the first sentence or two of their message. Emails and voicemails can also come with identifying information.

You are wise to switch these various settings off. I’ve got your back.

Click here for a step-by-step guide to keeping eyes off your smartphone.

Bonus: iPhone X vs. Samsung Galaxy, which is better?

Right now, there is a major battle between two unprecedented phones, the iPhone X and Samsung Galaxy. Both have powerful processors, incredible storage, and long-lasting batteries. Both designs are sleek and futuristic.

Millions of people swear by one brand or the other. Now that the phones have become comparable in price and their features have exceeded most consumers’ expectations, you may find yourself on the fence.

Click here for a detailed comparison between the two reigning smartphones.

What questions do you have? Call my national radio show and click here to find it on your local radio station. You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer. From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.

Copyright 2018, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment. All rights reserved.

Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show. Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks. For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.Red Bull driver Daniel Ricciardo yanked off his right shoe, poured champagne into it as he stood on the podium, and then drank up to his unlikely victory in Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix.

The Australian started from the third row, but took advantage when the safety car came out on the 31st lap to allow him to get fresh, soft tires when the other leaders were running on worn rubber and couldn't get in quickly to change.

Ricciardo got quicker and quicker and took the lead on the 45th lap of the 56-lap race, overtaking Valtteri Bottas with a dive on the inside past the Mercedes driver.

"A lot of time you only get one chance, so I make the most of every opportunity," Ricciardo said.

Bottas called it a "fair" pass and finished second with Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen in third.

Red Bull's victory leaves the Formula One season in a scramble after just three races. There's no clear favorite and plenty of questions.

Mercedes, the power of the last few seasons, has not won any of the first three races with defending champion Lewis Hamilton and Bottas at the wheel. Hamilton finished fourth on Sunday and was never a factor.

NASCAR CHAMP TONY STEWART SETTLES WRONGFUL DEATH LAWSUIT WITH KEVIN WARD'S FAMILY

Sebastian Vettel of Ferrari won the first two races in Australia and Bahrain, but failed to capitalize on his pole position in China. He led for the first 20 laps but fell back, first due to a pit stop and then after a collision with Red Bull's Max Verstappen on the 43rd lap. Vettel finished eighth.

The Ferrari driver still leads the season standings with 54 points after three races.

Hamilton, the four-time and defending champion, improved his season points total to 45. Bottas has 40 points in third place and Ricciardo is fourth with 37.

Bottas acknowledged Mercedes still "has work to do."

"It's so close between Red Bull, Ferrari and us," he said. "Just depending on the conditions and whoever gets the tires and the set up right. It's very close depending on the conditions."

This was Ricciardo's sixth career win, and the first one since a victory a year ago in Azerbaijan, the venue for the next race in two weeks.

What a difference a week makes.

In Bahrain a week ago, Ricciardo and Verstappen were out after the first several laps on a frustrating weekend for Red Bull.

NASCAR TO TEST RESTRICTOR PLATES IN $1 MILLION CHARLOTTE ALL-STAR RACE

"This sport's crazy," he said. "A week ago I was with my head down after two laps; frustrated at the sport, frustrated at all the variables that are involved in the sport. Sometimes I question why I chose this sport. It does get you down a lot. But then you have a day like this it's worth all those bad ones."There’s both good and bad news for national park visitors this summer.

After fierce public outcry, the agency is indeed hiking daily entrance fees at some of America's most popular parks by $5 to $35 a vehicle. The new plan replaces a proposal that would have charged $70 for cars to enter perennial hotspots like the Grand Canyon, Yellowstone, Yosemite and Zion, the release details.

“An investment in our parks is an investment in America. Every dollar spent to rebuild our parks will help bolster the gateway communities that rely on park visitation for economic vitality,” Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke said in a statement. “I want to thank the American people who made their voices heard through the public comment process on the original fee proposal. Your input has helped us develop a balanced plan that focuses on modest increases at the 117 fee-charging parks as opposed to larger increases proposed for 17 highly-visited national parks."

FISHERMAN GIVES C-SECTION TO DEAD SHARK, FREES 98 PUPS INTO THE OCEAN

“The $11.6 billion maintenance backlog isn’t going to be solved overnight and will require a multi-tiered approach as we work to provide badly needed revenue to repair infrastructure. This is just one of the ways we are carrying out our commitment to ensure that national parks remain world class destinations that provide an excellent value for families from all income levels,” he added.

As the new changes go into effect June 1, more than two-thirds of national parks will remain free to enter, Reuters reports.

“Federal law requires that 80 percent of revenue generated at a national park remains where it is collected. The remaining funds can be funneled to other projects within the system,” the outlet specifies. The modest price hike aims to generate revenue to address $11.6 billion in deferred maintenance projects through the National Park system of 417 parks, historic and cultural sites, and monuments.

SEVEN-YEAR-OLD GIRL HIKES MOUNT KILIMANJARO IN HONOR OF LATE DAD, BREAKS RECORD

The updated fee plan is "a big win for park-lovers everywhere," Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, told ABC News. "This is a prime example that activism works.”

In October 2017, the National Park Service announced it was considering hiking fees to address the maintenance backlog and opened up a month-long period for public comment. After receiving more than 109,000 comments from people opposing the plan, they rolled out the new strategy to keep the parks more financially accessible.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSBeyonce made history Saturday night by becoming the first black woman to headline Coachella, marking her return to the stage since giving birth to her twins Rumi and Sir Carter.

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 14, 2018 at 11:17pm PDT

"Y'all ready Coachella?” Beyonce said at the start of her set. “Thank you Coachella for allowing me to be the first black woman to headline.”

The singer, whose performance sparked the trending hashtag #Beychella, performed on the second night of the music festival in Indio, Calif. Fans have been anticipating Beyonce’s return to the festival stage after she canceled her performance the year before because of her pregnancy. Lady Gaga stepped in to fill the lineup in 2017.

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 15, 2018 at 12:47am PDT

"I was supposed to perform at Coachella before, but I ended up getting pregnant," Beyoncé said. "I had time to dream with two beautiful souls in my belly and this, this is everything I dreamed of and more. I hope y'all enjoyed the show, we worked very hard."

The 36-year-old singer also sent festivalgoers into a frenzy when she brought out Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams for a Destiny’s Child reunion. Rumors about the reunion have made headlines for months. The trio last performed together at the 2013 Super Bowl halftime show.

A post shared by Beyoncé (@beyonce) on Apr 15, 2018 at 12:49am PDT

"MY GIRLS!!!! Tonight couldn’t have been more magical!!! #Coachella2018 #BeyChella," Williams wrote on Instagram shortly after taking the stage.

Rowland also posted a group photo with the caption: “ma-kee-tata”

Beyonce's sister, Solange Knowles, and husband Jay-Z also joined Beyonce on stage during her set.

Her performance with Jay-Z gave a preview of the couple’s upcoming On The Run II tour set for this summer. Her last performance was during the 2017 Grammy Awards.Bon Jovi reunited with former members onstage Saturday night to celebrate their admission into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, as the late icon Nina Simone and other nominees made up this year’s induction class.

Bon Jovi was the first band to take the stage in Cleveland’s Public Auditorium, USA Today reported. Band members Jon Bon Jovi, David Bryan and Tico Torres reunited with former bandmates Richie Sambora and Alec John.

Jon Bon Jovi gave a 20-minute-long speech onstage, which he said he had been writing for years.

"I've been writing this speech since I first strummed a broom and sang at the top of the stairs of my childhood home," he said, according to the paper. "I've actually written it many ways, many times. Some days I write a thank you speech and other days, I write a (expletive)-you speech."

Sambora, who left the New Jersey band in 2013, and Alec John Such, who left in 1994, embraced their former bandmates with a hug after each one spoke onstage to accept the honor. They performed together, singing crowd favorites like "Livin' on a Prayer," ''You Give Love a Bad Name" and "It's My Life."

Sambora thanked his fans and bandmates, the paper reported.

"Songs are very profound in a way, because you're connecting with humanity," he said. "Everybody's more alike than they are (different), and especially now in today's world, that's really important."

Simone, who died in 2003, was welcomed into the Rock Hall in a groundbreaking way from performers who she has deeply inspired, from Lauryn Hill and Andra Day to Mary J. Blige.

Hill stretched her voice and sang in French, in honor of Simone's music, which earned her a standing ovation from the crowd. Day, a Grammy-nominated R&B singer, hit high notes that also earned her applause. Both women exceptionally displayed their powerhouse voices.

Blige inducted Simone, calling the singer "bold, strong, feisty and fearless."

"Her voice was so distinctive and powerful and I never heard anything like it," the R&B superstar said.

Simone was a leader in pushing for civil rights and influenced everyone from Aretha Franklin to Alicia Keys. Her brother, Sam Waymon, accepted the honor on his sister's behalf.

The 33rd annual Rock Hall ceremony kicked off with a tribute to Tom Petty, who died in October at age 66.

The Killers earned a loud applause from the audience when they started performing "American Girl," then transitioned to "Free Fallin'."

The Cars and four first-time nominees, including Simone, Dire Straits, the Moody Blues and Sister Rosetta Tharpe, make up the 2018 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame class.

The ceremony didn’t end this year with the group jam session of the induction class that has become Rock Hall tradition, USA Today reported.

Instead, inductees the Moody Blues ended the night as the last act. Rock Hall voters have recently opened their hearts to progressive rockers, which benefited the "Nights in White Satin" singers.

Howard Stern inducted this year’s class, telling jokes along the way, including one about Rock Hall co-founder Jann Wenner, questioning why he was qualified to vote on who enters the hall.

Stern said the Rolling Stone magazine founder doesn't play any instruments "but he did start a great magazine ... and now it's the size of a pamphlet."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A bunch of rotting doors to the rooms of an old New York City hotel recently fetched a total of more than $400,000 at an auction -- because they were saved from a trash heap by a sharp-eyed homeless man.

The top seller? The door to the Chelsea Hotel room where Bob Dylan is believed to have stayed. It sold for $125,000, Agence France-Presse reported.

A door linked to singers Janis Joplin and Leonard Cohen sold for $106,250, while doors connected with Jimi Hendrix and Madonna sold for $16,250 apiece, the report said.

The Chelsea, on 23rd Street in New York City, opened in 1884 and has long been a favorite among artists, writers and musicians.

Other famous guests and residents have reportedly included Mark Twain, Andy Warhol, Arthur C. Clarke, Humphrey Bogart, Janis Joplin and many others.

Perhaps most notoriously, it was the site where Nancy Spungen, the girlfriend of Sex Pistols band member Sid Vicious, was found dead in 1978. The punk rocker was arrested and charged with second-degree murder, but died of a drug overdose before the trial could start.

In 2011, the hotel closed for extensive renovations, AFP reported. The next year, former resident Jim Georgious – who was evicted for non-payment of rent in 2011 – recovered more than 50 doors that were being discarded in the trash.

Later, he managed to match 22 of the doors to specific rooms where specific celebrities had stayed, according to AFP.

"For me they were history and beauty and connected to my heart,” Georgious told the New York Times. “They're precious because there are so many people who’ve been through them.”

Six years after the doors were rescued, renovation work on the hotel continues, the BBC reported.

And Guernsey’s auction house, which handled the sales, is still tabulating the money, the AFP reported.

Georgiou has pledged half of his take from the auction to City Harvest, a nonprofit that feeds the needy, the report said.Radio host Art Bell, famous for his show “Coast to Coast AM” and its "X-Files"-flavored focus on the paranormal, died Friday (his fans will note, that was Friday the 13th) at the age of 72, Nevada authorities confirmed Saturday.

Bell died at his Pahrump, Nev., home, Nye County Sheriff Sharon Wehrly announced in a Facebook post to the community. She described him as a “longtime resident” of the area and said an autopsy to confirm the cause of death would be performed later this week.

“Coast to Coast AM” confirmed the news on Twitter, saying its staff was "profoundly saddened with the news that the creator and original host of Coast to Coast AM, Art Bell, has passed away at the age of 72."

ORSON WELLES’ DAUGHTER PLEADS WITH NETFLIX TO ‘RECONSIDER’ CANNES BAN AND PREMIERE FATHER’S LAST FILM

According to an obituary shared by the program, the show became syndicated across the country in 1993 and drew in listeners with its wee-hours chatter about conspiracy theories and aliens, shadow people and spectral energy.

The obituary said that as Bell “begins his journey on the ‘Other Side,’ we take solace in the hope that he is now finding out all of the answers to the mysteries he pursued for so many nights with all of us.”

Even after relinquishing his title as host in the early 2000s, Bell returned to the airwaves now and then, and he also started a show for satellite radio, the obituary said.

Before “Coast to Coast AM” began, Bell, who was born in 1945, was in the Air Force during the Vietnam War and there he “indulged his childhood passion for radio by operating a pirate radio station,” according to the obituary.

‘ROSEANNE’ REVIVAL PLAYS TRIBUTE TO DEPARTED CAST MEMBER IN EPISODE 4

The show tweeted a comment from its current host, George Noory, who described Bell as “a legend – a radio icon who went against the grain and developed an amazing show called 'Coast to Coast AM.' His impact on my life is beyond words. He will be missed, but I know he is now on another journey.”

Bell broadcast “Coast to Coast" from his radio station, KNYE, in Pahrump.

During Bell’s National Radio Hall of Fame induction in 2008, his former business partner, Alan Corbeth, said no one was better than Bell at understanding “how to create theater of the mind.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.article

LONDON (Reuters) - Martin Sorrell, who built WPP into the world's biggest advertising agency through 33 years of dealmaking, quit on Saturday after an allegation of personal misconduct.

Continue Reading Below

The departure of the CEO who built a two-man outfit into one of Britain's biggest companies with 200,000 staff in 112 countries leaves WPP without a boss at a pivotal time for the industry and when the group is under great strain.

WPP stunned the market last week when it said it had appointed lawyers to investigate alleged misconduct by Sorrell. He denied the allegations but in a letter to WPP staff published late on Saturday he said the "current disruption" was "putting too much unnecessary pressure on the business".

He said he had decided that "in your interest, in the interest of our clients, in the interest of all shareowners, both big and small, and in the interest of all our other stakeholders, it is best for me to step aside".

Chairman Roberto Quarta will become executive chairman until a new chief executive is found, while Mark Read, a WPP digital executive, and Andrew Scott, chief operating officer, Europe, have been appointed as joint chief operating officers.

Read, who previously sat on WPP's main board, is well regarded in the industry while Scott was involved in its acquisition strategy and was not involved with clients.

Advertisement

The company will consider internal and external candidates for the top job in a process that could take several months.

"Obviously I am sad to leave WPP after 33 years," Sorrell said in a statement. "It has been a passion, focus and source of energy for so long. However, I believe it is in the best interests of the business if I step down now."

WPP said the investigation, which regarded financial impropriety, had concluded. It made no further comment but repeated a previous statement that the allegation did not involve amounts that were material to the company.

A source close to Sorrell said he had been unhappy with how the investigation was handled, leaving him uncertain whether he could work with the board again.

Analysts have speculated that the sprawling group, which was being restructured after a year of lower spending from some clients, could now sell off some assets if led by different management.

PASSION AND FOCUS

The longest-serving CEO on the FTSE 100 blue chip index, Sorrell built WPP into one of Britain's biggest companies by three decades of relentless dealmaking. He is one of the most high profile, and best paid, executives in the country.

In his time the group expanded to own top creative agencies including J. Walter Thompson and Young & Rubicam, as well as media planners and buyers, market-research firms and public relations groups such as Finsbury.

Present in 112 countries, WPP serves clients including Ford, Unilever, P&G and a string of major corporations around the world.

It largely outperformed its peers Omnicom, Publicis and IPG in the years that followed the financial crisis as the group pitched aggressively for new work. But it has been hit in the last 18 months by a downturn in spending from consumer goods groups Unilever and P&G, and the loss of some big accounts.

The migration of advertising online and the encroachment into market research of consultancies such as Accenture have compounded the pressures. Its shares are down around 30 percent this year.

The company said Sorrell would be available to assist with the transition, and the man synonymous with the British marketing group told the staff they would come through this difficult time.

"As a founder, I can say that WPP is not just a matter of life or death, it was, is and will be more important than that," Sorrell said. "Good fortune and Godspeed to all of you. Now back to the future."

(Reporting by Kate Holton; Editing by Kevin Liffey, Alistair Bell and Daniel Wallis)A lawyer who burned himself to death in a grisly protest against ecological destruction was a nationally known gay rights advocate and lead attorney in a famous case involving transgender murder victim Brandon Teena.

The charred remains of 60-year-old David Buckel were found in a grassy meadow in Brooklyn's Prospect Park at dawn Saturday, as early-morning cyclists and joggers strode by. He left a suicide note in a shopping cart near his body, writing that he hoped his act would bring attention to the need to protect the environment.

"Most humans on the planet now breathe air made unhealthy by fossil fuels, and many die early deaths as a result — my early death by fossil fuel reflects what we are doing to ourselves," the note read, according to the New York Times which received an emailed copy.

Buckel wrote that pollution was ravaging the planet and hoped his death would serve as a symbol. But he was best known as a champion of gay rights. A 1987 graduate of Cornell Law School, he served as marriage project director at Lambda Legal, a national organization that fights for LGBT rights. In one case he led, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that same-sex couples and their children were harmed because they were excluded from rights granted to married couples.

He argued against the Boy Scout ban on gay, fought for the right of gay high school students in Salt Lake City to organize a club and helped a Pennsylvania woman win a lawsuit allowing her to put "beloved life partner" on the headstone of her partner. And he spearheaded a federal case where a court ruled schools are obligated to prevent the bullying of gay students, Camilla Taylor, acting legal director at Lambda Legal, told the Times.

He'd been doing the work for years — Buckel worked on Brandon v. County of Richardson — where the sheriff's office in 2001 was found liable for failing to protect Teena. Hilary Swank won an Academy Award for her portrayal of Teena in the 1999 movie "Boys Don't Cry."

"It's a very important case, not only within Nebraska but nationally," Buckel said after the $80,000 judgment against the city, according to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln's student newspaper the Daily Nebraskan.

Susan Sommer, a former Lambda Legal attorney who is now the general counsel for the Mayor's Office of Criminal Justice in New York City, told the Times that Buckel "was all about justice, but he was also all about what it means to be human."

Sommer added, "He was a very smart and methodical lawyer. He knew his craft and his trade and was strategic in how to build the blocks toward a sweeping victory."

___

Information from: Daily News, http://www.nydailynews.comA bitter battle between ex-neighbors over ownership of a 100-pound dog has resulted in a Solomon-like decision by a Florida judge awarding shared custody rights to both parties.

Tina Marie Walker, of Madeira Beach, adopted Elario, a playful 4-year-old black Labrador retriever mix, in 2016, Fox 13 Tampa reported.

But for the last five weeks she’s been sharing custody of the pooch with David Somerville, her former next-door neighbor, according to the station.

"And I don't understand it because in the state of Florida, a dog is property," Walker said. "He's licensed to me. I paid for the dog."

Somerville took Walker to court claiming he should be awarded sole ownership because he's been Elario’s main caretaker, paying for the dog’s food, vet bills and toys, the station reported.

The court record shows that their friendship took a bitter turn when Walker had Elario microchipped and put the registration in her name. Walker then kept Somerville away from the dog, prompting the lawsuit.

The shared custody arrangement was worked out by Pinellas County Small Claims Court Judge Lorraine Kelly, who said in a March 8 ruling that it was in the best interests of all concerned.

“Both parties have health considerations that quality time with Elario makes better. Both parties have spent a great deal of time with the dog and witnesses say he shows great affection for both of his humans,” she said.

Elario now stays with Somerville every other weekend from Friday to Tuesday under a schedule worked out by the judge.

Walker told Fox 13 she took care of Somerville, a Vietnam vet, after he had lung cancer surgery.

“I loved him, for two-and-a-half years I took care of him,” she told the station. “So I don’t understand this at all. I’m betrayed, I’m broken-hearted, my dog is split up.”

Walker is appealing Kelly's ruling. She said that she has been forced to move.

Fox 13 reported contacting Somerville, who declined to be interviewed on-air.

Click for more from Fox 13 Tampa.Boston marked the fifth anniversary of the deadly Boston Marathon bombings Sunday with solemn remembrances and charitable acts.

Democratic Mayor Marty Walsh and Republican Gov. Charlie Baker laid wreaths early in the morning at the spots along downtown Boylston Street where two bombs killed three spectators and maimed more than 260 others on April 15, 2013.

One wreath was laid by Baker in front of Marathon Sports as bagpipes played in the background. In a another spot, the family of victims Martin Richard and Lü Lingzi were comforted by Walsh as another wreath was placed where the second bomb went off by the Atlantic Fish restaurant. Hundreds of silent people gathered to watch behind barricades.

People left bouquets of flowers, handwritten notes, candles and stuffed toys.

Both Baker and Walsh addressed families and survivors at a private ceremony inside the Boston Public Library.

"On April 15, 2013, our city changed forever but over the last five years, we have reclaimed hope. We have reclaimed the finish line and Boston has emerged with a new strength, a resilience rooted in love," Walsh said.

BOSTON MARATHON'S FIRST OFFICIAL FEMALE RUNNER RELIVES BOMBINGS: 'RUNNING MAKES YOU FEARLESS'

Jane and Henry Richard, siblings of the youngest victim Martin Richard, and members of the family's foundation, also spoke.

Henry Richard urged those listening to follow Martin's message to "choose kindness and do more." The family's foundation was founded in 2014 to connect young people with opportunities for volunteerism and community engagement.

Lingzi's uncle, Sherman Yee, was present at the ceremony and private gathering. He said, "The family has been 'overwhelmed by love and support from all over the world.'" He called Lingzi an "extraordinary girl" who represented the youth that come to the U.S. from China to study.

"While she didn't realize her dreams, as her family we invest in the youths through our foundation to keep her memory going," he said.

Arreen Andrew, of Boston, said she was in the crowd across the stand when the first bomb went off in 2013.

"It was sheer panic," she recalled. "Just this sense of 'No, this can't happen to us."

5 YEARS ON, MARATHON BOMB SURVIVORS INSPIRE MEDICAL ADVANCES

Five years later, while the day is still a reminder of some painful memories, she said it has also become a day about the relationships that have since been formed and "reformed and recreated our entire community."

At 2:49 p.m., a citywide moment of silence will be observed, and the bells of Old South Church will be rung to mark the moment five years ago when the first bomb exploded. Sunday is "One Boston Day," devoted to blood drives and acts of kindness.

Security is tight for Monday's 122nd running of the iconic race.Hundreds of thousands of American schoolteachers work second jobs to boost their income.

While outrage over low pay has driven teacher revolts in states including Oklahoma and West Virginia, federal data shows it has been no less common for educators to moonlight at second jobs in other places where the pay is higher but so is the cost of living.

Nationwide, 17.9 percent of teachers work jobs outside school, supplementing the average full-time teacher salary of $55,100 by an average of $5,100, according to the latest survey from the U.S. Education Department, from the 2015-2016 school year.

In interviews moonlighting teachers talk of missing time with family, struggles to complete lesson plans and nagging doubts over whether it's worth the sacrifices to stay in their profession.next

prev

The Latest on Montenegro's presidential election (all times local):

9:05 p.m.

Preliminary projections by independent monitors in Montenegro's presidential election have shown that ruling-party leader Milo Djukanovic has swept the vote, avoiding a runoff.

The Center for Monitoring and Research said Sunday after counting over 60 percent of the votes that Djukanovic won about 53 percent while his main opponent Mladen Bojanic won 34 percent.

If confirmed, the result will present a major boost for Djukanovic, who defied Russia to take his country into NATO last year.

___

8:30 a.m.

Voters in Montenegro are casting ballots in a presidential election, with former Prime Minister Milo Djukanovic expected to win after his party defied Russia and took the small Balkan nation into NATO last year.

The vote Sunday is the first since Montenegro joined the Western military alliance in December. It's seen as a test for Djukanovic, who favors European integration over closer ties to traditional ally Moscow.

Djukanovic, the country's dominant politician, and his Democratic Party of Socialists have ruled Montenegro for nearly 30 years. President Filip Vujanovic is not running due to term limits.

About 530,000 voters can choose among several candidates. Djukanovic's main challenger is Mladen Bojanic, backed by several opposition groups, including pro-Russian ones.

Polls suggest Djukanovic could win more than half of the votes and avoid a runoff.Almost one year into his term, French President Emmanuel Macron will discuss the airstrikes in Syria and defend an economic reform agenda that has prompted widespread worker strikes.

Macron was scheduled to make a television appearance on Sunday night. It will be his first since the U.S., France and the U.K. launched the airstrikes early Saturday.

The 40-year-old leader is expected to explain his decision to join the operation, the biggest test yet of his foreign policy.

In the domestic field, he is likely to highlight France's improved economic environment, despite simmering anger over his labor law changes.

Retirees, hospital workers, students and others have taken to the streets to protest his government's planned reforms.

Train workers have launched on-and-off strikes over a railway labor reform plan, disrupting traffic nationwide.next

prev

Guatemalans are voting in a referendum on their country's longstanding territorial dispute with neighboring Belize.

Sunday's ballot asks whether voters agree to send the issue to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Netherlands, for a binding resolution.

However Belize would also have to make a request before the court would take up the matter.

Guatemala claims some 4,200 square miles (11,000 square kilometers) administered by Belize — essentially the country's entire southern half.

The area is home to a number of nature reserves and is sparsely populated for the most part, with scattered farming villages, fishing towns and some Caribbean beach tourism destinations.

The origin of the dispute dates back over 200 years to when Guatemala and Belize were Spanish and British colonies, respectively.next

prev

Manchester City won the Premier League title without even playing on Sunday when nearest challenger Manchester United surprisingly lost 1-0 at home to last-place West Bromwich Albion.

It was City's third title in seven seasons and easily its most convincing, with Pep Guardiola's team 16 points clear and still having five games to play this season. City's other two Premier League triumphs, in 2012 and '14, were sealed on the final day.

Second-place United dragged the title race out for at least another week by winning 3-2 at City last weekend, only to gift the trophy to City by losing to a team that is destined for relegation and had just one league win since August.

Guardiola might not have seen Jay Rodriguez's 73rd-minute winning goal at Old Trafford because he was due to be playing golf with his son instead of watching the match.

"Our Time. Our City. Premier League Champions 17/18," City tweeted soon after the final whistle, when the fifth English top-flight title of its history was assured.

Instead of City likely clinching the title at home to Swansea next weekend, that game at Etihad Stadium will now be a party and a celebration of one of the Premier League's finest teams which could yet break a slew of records by the end of the season.

An 18-match winning run from late-August to late-December laid the platform for the runaway title victory, and it was only a matter of when it would be clinched.

Few — including Guardiola — expected it to happen on Sunday.

"We've won you the league, Manchester City, we've won you the league," sang West Brom's fans near the end of the game.

The 2012 title win had the infamous last-gasp goal by Sergio Aguero. Six years later, the finale was much more underwhelming, with Rodriguez nodding in from a corner to silence the majority of Old Trafford and set up one of the most surprising wins of the season.

United manager Jose Mourinho had long given up hopes of winning the title, instead focusing on finishing second. This result left his team one point clear of third-place Liverpool, with a game in hand.

As for City, it has a month to finish a season with the most points, goals and wins in a single Premier League campaign.

___

More AP Premier League coverage: www.apnews.com/tag/PremierLeague

___

Steve Douglas is at www.twitter.com/sdouglas80Even imprisonment hasn't knocked former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva out of the lead in Brazil's presidential race.

A poll released Sunday by the Datafolha institute shows the center-leftist with a strong advantage. It's the first survey of Brazilians following the ex-leader's April 7 jailing on corruption charges, which he's appealing.

At least 30 percent of those polled say they back da Silva. That's down from 34 to 37 percent under various scenarios in January. He also leads in all proposed runoff combinations.

His closest rival is conservative Jair Bolsonaro with at least 15 percent.

Da Silva's Workers' Party has pledged to register him, but judges are likely to bar his candidacy.

Datafolha interviewed 4.194 people between Wednesday and Friday. The margin of error is 2 percentage points.Some of the survivors recovering in hospital rooms following the deadly April 6 crash of a Canadian hockey team's bus welcomed a surprise visitor Friday night -- the National Hockey League's famed Stanley Cup trophy.

Tom Straschnitzki, father of 19-year-old Humboldt Broncos player Ryan Straschnitzki who is one of the injured, told CBC News that he saw the box containing the trophy being carted into Royal University Hospital in Saskatoon, Sask., and instantly knew what was inside.

DEATH TOLL IN HUMBOLDT BRONCOS BUS CRASH REACHES 16

The box looked familiar from past trophy presentations, he told the outlet, and when a person in white gloves took the trophy out, he learned he was right.

As the trophy reached his son’s hospital bed, Ryan Straschnitzki reportedly had a shocked expression on his face.

Tom confirmed that the trophy was indeed the real deal, CBC News reported, saying it being there “really lifted their spirits.”

When given the opportunity to touch the trophy, Tom told the outlet that his son opted not to, willing to hold off until he could win it himself. And Ryan was reportedly not the only player who made that decision.

NFL PLAYERS, FANS PAY TRIBUTE TO HUMBOLDT BUS CRASH VICTIMS

"They know the tradition," Tom said. Touching the trophy without having played for an NHL championship team is a well-known superstition among hockey players.

Sixteen people were killed after the bus carrying the Humboldt Broncos junior hockey team to a playoff game collided with a semi-trailer on a highway in Saskatchewan. Ryan’s family told CBC News that the player lost feeling in his legs as a result of his injury.

As of Saturday, 10 crash victims remained hospitalized, with two in critical condition, the Saskatoon Star Phoenix reported.

Also Saturday, funerals were held for Broncos head coach Darcy Haugan, volunteer statistician Brody Hinz and player Logan Boulet, the newspaper reported.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.