Attorneys for Trump lawyer Michael Cohen, in their latest court filing, blasted the FBI for its “unprecedented” raid on his properties last week and claimed the feds seized items that “have nothing to do with the probable cause” on which the warrant was granted.

Cohen, President Trump’s longtime personal attorney who formerly worked at the Trump Organization, is under criminal investigation as part of a grand jury probe into his personal conduct and business dealings.

Cohen’s attorneys – Stephen Ryan and Todd Harrison – penned a letter to federal Judge Kimba Wood of the Southern District of New York early Monday ahead of a high-profile hearing later in the day. They are urging to court to appoint an official to review what materials are protected by attorney-client privilege.

“[T]here is a growing public debate about whether criminal and congressional investigations by the government are being undertaken impartially, free of any political bias or partisan motivation. It is in this climate that the Government executed an unprecedented search warrant—instead of using its less onerous subpoena power—upon the personal attorney of the President of the United States,” Cohen’s attorneys wrote.

“In the process, the Government seized more than a dozen electronic devices and other items that include documents and data regarding topics and issues that have nothing to do with the probable cause upon which the search warrant was granted in the first place.”

Cohen’s apartment, office, hotel room and safety deposit box were raided on April 9—a move that, according to U.S. Attorney Robert S. Khuzami of USAO-SDNY, was approved by a federal magistrate judge.

“These searches were carried out as part of an ongoing grand jury investigation being conducted by the USAO-SDNY and the FBI,” Khuzami’s motion filed Friday read. The order goes on to explain in a footnote that while Special Counsel Robert Mueller did, in fact, refer the investigation into Cohen, the USAO-SDNY is proceeding with the investigation “independent” of Mueller’s team.

Khuzami stated that the judge “had found probable cause to believe that the premises and devices searched contained evidence, fruits, and instrumentalities of conduct for which Cohen is under criminal investigation.”

The filing from Cohen’s attorneys Monday comes before the hearing slated for 2 p.m. in New York City. Adult film star Stormy Daniels, whom Cohen paid $130,000, allegedly for her silence about an affair with Trump, is slated to attend the hearing.

Cohen’s attorneys underscored the “unprecedented” nature of seizing data and files of the personal attorney to the president of the United States.

“This is completely unprecedented. Prior to the execution of warrants at issue, prosecutors from the Southern District of New York had already intercepted emails from the president’s personal lawyer,” the attorneys wrote. “They apparently executed the search warrants at issue here only after they searched the private emails between the President of the United States and his personal lawyer and realized that ‘zero emails were exchanged with President Trump’.”

At issue is the topic of attorney-client privilege, which the president has claimed in recent days is “dead.”

Harvard Law Professor Alan Dershowitz, in an op-ed last week, noted the importance of honoring the attorney-client privilege, and the idea that that privilege should prevent federal investigators from even seizing those communications.

“Civil libertarians should be concerned whenever the government interferes with the lawyer-client relationship. Clients should be able to rely on confidentiality when they disclose their most intimate secrets in an effort to secure their legal rights,” Dershowitz wrote in an opinion column for The Hill. “A highly publicized raid on the president’s lawyer will surely shake the confidence of many clients in promises of confidentiality by their lawyers.”

Cohen’s attorneys also noted that federal investigators seized records, not only relating to Trump-Cohen client-attorney privilege, but also former RNC Deputy Finance Chair Elliot Broidy, who resigned last week after the revelations of an alleged sex scandal settlement arranged by Cohen.

“A special master should be appointed in the interest of the administration of justice to ensure that the Government does not have access to materials for which they have not yet shown would be obtained through a valid search warrant through a showing of probable cause,” Cohen’s attorneys wrote.

The U.S. attorney's office, though, argued that the court should permit them to "review the evidence lawfully seized" as is "common practice" in the district. "Our prior brief explained that the investigation relates in large part to conduct by Cohen in his personal business and financial dealings, which have nothing to do with any legal practice he may have," Khuzami wrote, arguing against the request for a special master to review the files.

Cohen’s attorney motion comes just hours after Trump’s lawyer Joanna Hendon wrote a letter to the court requesting the federal government throw out evidence seized in the raid last week.

“The President objects to the government’s proposal to use a ‘taint team’ of prosecutors from the very Office that is investigating this matter to conduct the initial privilege review of documents seized from the President’s personal attorney, Michael D. Cohen,” Hendon wrote.

A “taint team,” which Dershowitz said “may not be entitled to read or review many of the items seized,” is set up to review documents and “protect the subject of the search from violation of his or her constitutional rights.”

Dershowitz told Fox News on Monday that a law should be put in place to ensure that a judge is the one to review documents that include attorney-client privilege—not a taint team.

“The cases upon which the government relies do not authorize this extraordinary measure, and, to our knowledge, no court in this Circuit has ever forced a privilege-holder, over his objection, to rely on government lawyers to protect his attorney-client privilege as to materials that were seized from his own lawyer’s office,” Hendon wrote, urging the court to “enter an order enjoining the government from proceeding with any review of the seized materials, and directing the government to provide a copy of the seized materials to Mr. Cohen so that our firm and the President may review for privilege those seized documents that relate to him.”

Khuzami countered in a filing, "There is no basis for the assertion by the President that career federal prosecutors, designated to a Filter Team, cannot fairly evaluate whether certain files obtained by a judicially-authorized search warrant contain privileged material."

The raid sought, among other documents, records related to the payment made to Daniels in the weeks leading up to the 2016 presidential election.

The $130,000 payment was in exchange for Daniels signing a nondisclosure agreement regarding an alleged sexual encounter with Trump in 2006, Daniels has said.

Daniels, who initially denied a sexual relationship with the president, is now seeking depositions from both Trump and Cohen. If approved, Trump would be the first sitting president to be deposed since former President Bill Clinton during Ken Starr’s independent counsel investigation.

Fox News' Shira Bush contributed to this report.WASHINGTON -- An internal government watchdog says the Environmental Protection Agency violated federal spending laws when purchasing a $43,000 soundproof privacy booth for Administrator Scott Pruitt to make private phone calls in his office.

The Government Accountability Office issued its findings Monday in a letter to Senate Democrats who had requested a review of Pruitt's spending.

GAO General Counsel Thomas Armstrong determined that EPA's purchase of the booth violated federal law prohibiting agencies from spending more than $5,000 to make improvements to the offices of presidential appointees without informing Congress. Because EPA used federal money in a manner specifically prohibited by law, Armstrong said the agency also violated the Antideficiency Act, and is legally obligated to report that violation to Congress.

EPA spokeswoman Liz Bowman said the agency is "addressing GAO's concern, with regard to congressional notification about this expense, and will be sending Congress the necessary information this week."

EPA has said previously that Pruitt needed the privacy booth to make secure phone calls with President Donald Trump and others without fear of eavesdropping. It is among several unusual security precautions taken by Pruitt that are now under scrutiny, like his use frequent use of first-class flights to avoid unpleasant interactions with other travelers.

The Associated Press first reported in December that EPA also spent about $9,000 for an outside contractor to sweep Pruitt's office for secret listening devices and installed biometric locks.

Democratic Sen. Tom Udall of Utah, who requested the GAO review, said the finding was yet another example of the embattled EPA administrator flouting federal spending rules.

"An illegal privacy booth to conduct secret discussions with his polluter friends does nothing to help our health or environment," Udall said Monday. "Scott Pruitt is behaving like swamp emperor rather than EPA administrator -- he has shown a shocking lack of regard for public health and safety, ethics and fairness. He has been a disaster, and it's past time for him to go."The Republican National Committee is ripping into James Comey’s comments during his TV appearance Sunday touting his forthcoming book with a fact-check picking apart the former FBI director's claims.

“James Comey’s publicity tour reaffirms that his true higher loyalty is to himself,” RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said after the ABC interview. “The only thing worse than Comey’s history of misconduct is his willingness to say anything to sell books. He has no credibility and President Trump was right to follow through on the bipartisan calls for him to be fired.”

The RNC took issue with Comey’s claim that Trump directed him to drop the federal investigation of former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.

The group argued that Comey’s sworn, May 2017 Senate testimony proves his version of the conversation with Trump about Flynn “is a lie.”

“Comey testified that he had never been asked to halt an investigation for political reasons,” said the group, which linked to a YouTube video of the hearing. The RNC also said that in June 2017, Comey “admitted when pressed that neither President Trump nor his staff asked him to stop the Russia investigation.”

Comey said at the time that Trump asked him to "let this go" but that Trump did not order him to do so.

On Comey’s comment that Trump is “unethical” and “untethered to truth and institutional values,” the group countered that, “Comey has proven himself to be all of these things, and then some.”

The RNC said Comey -- fired in May 2017 by Trump -- leaked bureau documents to protect himself and to try to make himself “look good in the press.”

Comey acknowledged on Capitol Hill that he in fact directed the content of a memo he kept regarding a conversation with Trump be leaked to the press.

“Comey has been caught in repeated contradictions and lies,” the RNC said. “Comey broke his own rules at the FBI when he leaked documents to the press.”

As Comey defended his actions, the group also listed several other alleged inconsistencies -- including Comey apparently usurping then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s authority and breaking FBI procedure when he “unilaterally called an end to the Clinton email investigation.”

The group also said Comey didn’t correctly handle the initial public statements about the investigation into Clinton’s use of private email serves while secretary of state, as he claims.

“The facts,” the RNC said, “Comey broke longstanding FBI and [Justice Department] protocol several times by publicly acknowledging the existence of ongoing FBI investigations.”

In the wide-ranging ABC interview in promotion of "A Higher Loyalty," Comey blasted Trump as “morally unfit to be president.” Trump and the RNC have preemptively hammered the former FBI boss in advance of the book's release, with a flurry of tweets and rapid-response email blasts.WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court for the second time has refused to hear an appeal by imprisoned former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich of his corruption convictions.

The justices didn't comment Monday in letting stand the convictions and 14-year prison term the 61-year-old is serving. His scheduled release date is 2024.

Blagojevich's lawyers had wanted the high court to take up his case to make clear what constitutes illegal political fundraising. They argued that politicians are vulnerable to prosecution because the line between what's allowed and what's illegal is blurry.

His convictions included trying to extort a children's hospital for contributions and seeking to trade an appointment to the Senate seat Barack Obama vacated when he was elected president for campaign cash.

The court also refused to hear his 2016 appeal.From his handling of a probe into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to his investigation into Russian meddling in the election, former FBI Director James Comey has long been a punching bag for President Trump.

After Comey left the FBI, Trump accused him of leaving the agency in "tatters." And as Comey prepares for his explosive tell-all book to be released, Trump called for the former FBI boss to be "prosecuted" for allegedly leaking information and lying under oath to Congress.

"He is a weak and untruthful slime ball who was, as time has proven, a terrible Director of the FBI," Trump said in April. "It was my great honor to fire James Comey!"

But while Trump has publicly hit the nation’s former chief investigator hard, his public opinion throughout his presidency and campaign hasn't been all bad.

Criticism

On Clinton’s emails

Trump has often tweeted about Comey’s involvement in the FBI’s investigation into Clinton’s use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state, saying his handling of the probe has left the FBI in “tatters.”

“Hillary and the Dems loved and praised FBI Director Comey just a few days ago. Original evidence was overwhelming, should not have delayed!” Trump tweeted in October 2016.

Before Comey was officially sacked, Trump said Comey “was the best thing that ever happened to” Clinton because he “gave her a free pass for many bad deeds.”

After the FBI confirmed Comey had drafted a statement about Clinton before the investigation was completed, Trump took to Twitter to lambast the former FBI chief even more.

“Wow, FBI confirms report that James Comey drafted letter exonerating Crooked Hillary Clinton long before investigation was complete. Many people not interviewed, including Clinton herself,” Trump tweeted. “Comey stated under oath that he didn’t do this – obviously a fix? Where is Justice Dept?” Trump tweeted.

“As it turned out, James Comey lied and leaked and totally protected Hillary Clinton. He was the best thing that ever happened to her!” he said.

He's also said Comey, along with others, have "committed many crimes."

On Comey’s firing

Trump fired Comey on May 9, 2017 and sent his FBI chief a short, impersonal letter to make him aware of his termination.

Trump predictably took to Twitter to defend the firing.

“James Comey will be replaced by someone who will do a far better job, bringing back the spirit and prestige of the FBI," Trump said the morning after the firing.

“Comey lost the confidence of almost everyone in Washington, Republican and Democrat alike. When things calm down, they will be thanking me!” Trump added.

On the Russia investigation

Comey told Trump that he was not under investigation by the FBI, Trump said in a May 2017 interview with NBC News.

“I said, if it’s possible would you let me know, am I under investigation? He said, ‘You are not under investigation,’” Trump said.

When asked if he was angry with Comey over his investigation into Russia’s meddling in the presidential election, Trump just said he “want[s] somebody that’s competent” to lead the FBI. He added that he is “a big fan of the FBI.”

Trump reportedly called Comey “crazy” and a “nut job” during a conversation with Russian officials in the Oval Office the day after Comey’s firing, according to The New York Times.

“I just fired the head of the FBI. He was crazy, a real nut job,” Trump said according to a document of the meeting obtained by the Times. “I faced great pressure because of Russia. That’s taken off.”

And when it comes to his former national security adviser Michael Flynn, Trump has denied asking Comey to stop his investigation into potential wrongdoing.

“I never asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn. Just more Fake News covering another Comey lie!” Trump tweeted on Dec. 3.

On Comey's memo

As Comey has promoted his new memoir, titled "A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership," Trump called the former FBI head a "slimeball" and dubbed him "Slippery James Comey."

"Slippery James Comey, a man who always ends up badly and out of whack (he is not smart!), will go down as the WORST FBI Director in history, by far!" Trump said on social media.

He also criticized the book for not answering certain questions, such as: "how come he gave up Classified Information (jail), why did he lie to Congress (jail), why did the DNC refuse to give [Clinton's email server] to the FBI (why didn't they TAKE it), why the phony memos," among other things.

Trump has also denied asking Comey for his loyalty, something Comey detailed in his memoir.

On stopping government leaks

Trump has several times expressed his disappointment with Comey and the FBI not being able to stop “national security ‘leakers’” – and even accused the former FBI boss of leaking as well.

“The FBI is totally unable to stop the national security ‘leakers’ that have permeated our government for a long time. They can't even find the leakers within the FBI itself. Classified information is being given to media that could have a devastating effect on U.S.” Trump tweeted in February 2017.

Trump also threatened Comey against leaking, himself, information to the media.

“James Comey better hope that there are no ‘tapes’ of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press,” Trump tweeted.

His tweet came after The New York Times reported Trump asked for Comey’s loyalty during a private dinner, which Comey declined to give. The New York Times cited sources who said they knew about the details of the dinner through Comey.

Praise

On Clinton’s emails

While the president eventually castigated Comey’s handling of the probe into Clinton’s private email server, Trump initially praised him for investigating Clinton at all.

“It took a lot of guts,” Trump said in October 2017 of Comey’s decision to reopen the Clinton investigation.

“I have to give the FBI credit. That was so bad what happened originally,” Trump said after the FBI did not recommend charges be brought against Clinton by the Justice Department.

“It took guts for Director Comey to make the move that he made in light of the kind of opposition he had where they’re trying to protect her from criminal prosecution,” Trump said.

“I was not his fan, but I’ll tell you what — what he did, he brought back his reputation,” Trump continued.

He also encouraged Comey then to “hang tough.”

On the Russia investigation

In prepared remarks released ahead of Comey’s testimony in front of the Senate Intelligence Committee in 2017, Comey confirmed reports that Trump asked the FBI to lay off his former national security adviser as the department investigated Russia’s influence on the 2016 presidential election. But Comey also confirmed that he did reassure the president that Trump was not under investigation.

Trump was “pleased” by Comey’s admission.

“The president is pleased that Mr. Comey has finally publicly confirmed his private reports that the President was not under investigation in any Russian probe,” Trump’s lawyer said in a statement. “The President feels completely and totally vindicated. He is eager to continue to move forward with his agenda.”In this tax season, as Americans cobble together charitable receipts to maximize their tax deductions, the charitable world’s expert class is repeating a scary message: the new tax bill will lead to a sharp and tragic decline in charitable giving.

As the renowned Democrat politician Daniel Patrick Moynihan said, "Everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but not to his own facts." Here is a fact that hasn’t changed: Americans are the most generous givers on the planet. We give about two percent of our country’s total gross domestic product to charity each year; the next best countries are lucky to top one percent. This has been a fact for fifty years, through numerous tax-law changes. Anticipating a dramatic decline in philanthropy as a result of this bill puts little faith in the true intentions of American givers, who remain the most generous in the world. Let’s not lose hope now.

Much of the current concern centers on middle-class donors who previously might itemize but now could end up covered by the higher standard deduction. The claim is that this takes away the tax incentive for this group to give.

Yet people’s reasons for giving go beyond taxes. While two-thirds of Americans give to charity, only about a third of tax filers itemize, proving that many givers already lack the tax incentive. Further, modern giving may go to giving vehicles without any tax benefits such as crowdfunding, impact investing, and small-dollar cash donations (consider the more than $140 million that donors give to Salvation Army red kettles over the holidays).

My hunch is that people in the awkward zone between itemizing or taking the standard deduction will spend far more time contemplating the impact of their giving than whether they can save a few dollars on taxes by giving away four times as much as they save.

Charitable giving isn’t about financial return-on-investment. Rather, philanthropy aims to feed, connect, educate, train, build, advocate, and otherwise change the world.

My wife and I fall squarely in the tax arena that is worrying experts. We spend roughly zero seconds considering how much of our donation comes back to us at tax time. Perhaps we would have been financially richer had we traded donations for stock shares, but the handful of folks who found food at the Arlington Food Assistance Center because of our small donations wouldn’t have had as much. DC Central Kitchen might not have trained that one extra person. As head of finance at my church, I’m fully aware of what a falloff in tithing could do to our congregation’s mission.

Let’s consider what a donor gets for that tax deduction. Any rational economist will tell you giving away money to get a fraction returned to you (months later with no interest nonetheless) is a fools game. A middle-class donor in the 25 percent tax bracket gets around 25 cents back come tax time for every dollar given – if they itemize, of course.

A good homo economicus would suggest taking the money you give to charity and instead stash it away in a good index fund, thus keeping your dollars and earning you a quarter to boot. But charitable giving isn’t about financial return-on-investment. Rather, philanthropy aims to feed, connect, educate, train, build, advocate, and otherwise change the world. This immeasurable positive impact of our collective charitable action offers its own worthwhile ROI.

Rather than panic, non-profit organizations should tell their stories more boldly, reminding donors of the positive work they do for the community and asking for contributions with pride. The tax benefit of giving may still be a bullet point in their literature, but it shouldn’t be at the top.

Donors to the more than 1.5 million registered charities in the United States need to keep their part of the deal too. We need to keep giving – and give more – to help move the needle toward a better world.

Donors don’t have to completely abandon the tax benefits, either. For those on that itemization bubble, tools such as donor-advised funds allow donors to “clump” the tax benefits of giving into one year, but then make grants over time, keeping one’s giving level year to year.

Yes, the tax bill will adjust donor behavior at the margin, but not with the dire effects predicted by some analysts. Rather than fear-monger, let’s use this moment to celebrate and encourage the positive impact our charitable giving can have. That would change philanthropy in a way that would benefit everyone.A stunning New York real estate deal has offered a glimpse into just how much money one of Bill Clinton’s closest confidants has raked in over the years, after it was reported that Doug Band snatched up the Manhattan townhouse of the late business magnate David Rockefeller – for a cool $20 million.

Band, a longtime Clinton adviser, bought the mansion on the Upper East Side through a limited liability company, two people familiar with the transaction told The Wall Street Journal.

The 9,777 square-foot townhouse, located on a quiet block between Lexington and Third Avenues, is spread out over four levels and features eight bedrooms and a library, in addition to six staff rooms.

The house was built in 1924 and originally listed for $32.5 million last June. It also features a landscaped garden with "silver birch trees, mature rhododendrons and trimmed moss," according to a profile of the home by The New York Times last year.

Rockefeller and his wife Peggy bought the home in 1948, and lived in the space for almost seven decades. The home was put on the market last year after Rockefeller, grandson of industrial magnet John D. Rockefeller and onetime CEO of Chase Manhattan Bank, died at the age of 101.

CLINTON-TIED FIRM BLURS LEGAL LINE, COMBINING POLITICS AND INVESTMENTS, SAY EXPERTS

Band, 45, has been in the Clinton family orbit for decades. He is among a cadre of Clinton associates at the center of reports suggesting they used those family connections to drum up business -- though Band has suggested such claims are "ridiculous."

He is currently the president and co-founder of Teneo Holdings, which purports to offer intelligence about political risk to corporate CEOs, billionaire families and leaders of foreign governments.

The high-powered firm has previously drawn criticism for helping rich investors leverage inside political information, according to an investigation by Fox News. The company also was at the center of questions over how Hillary Clinton adviser Huma Abedin was able to get paid by the firm while also working at the State Department.

Long before Teneo, Band began his career at the White House in 1995 and served as President Clinton's chief adviser from 2002 until 2012 -- a time when he was the "key architect of Clinton’s post-Presidency," according to Teneo's website.

"Mr. Band has advised several heads of state, governors and mayors transitioning out of public office into private life," Teneo's website says. "He was part of the negotiation team that handled all aspects of Hillary Clinton’s becoming Secretary of State."

TOP BILL CLINTON AIDE CRITICIZED EX-PRESIDENT FOR CONFLICTS OF INTEREST, EMAILS SHOW

Band also helped build the Clinton Global Initiative, which was known for its annual glitzy gathering of high-powered leaders and celebrities. The CGI last year however, laid off 22 employees and shuttered its main office in New York.

Teneo did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Band's reported purchase of the home.

Fox News' Cody Derespina contributed to this report.Ex-New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, a former federal prosecutor, blasted James Comey on Sunday for the “hubris” he showed in his TV interview and accused him of injecting politics into the federal Hillary Clinton email investigation.

“I think it’s unfortunately obvious that Jim Comey began to believe his own press clippings. It's the biggest danger in public life. The hubris that he shows in his interview is extraordinary,” Christie tweeted about Comey’s Sunday night interview on ABC, the first of several plugging his tell-all book, “A Higher Loyalty,” which is critical of President Trump.

A Trump supporter and 2016 GOP presidential candidate, Christie was particularly critical of Comey suggesting that his decision to reveal he would revisit the email case was influenced by polling that showed Clinton, a Democrat, likely to win the 2016 White House race over Trump.

“When I worked for Jim Comey, if I had told him 11 days before an election that I was releasing information that could affect an election, and the decision was influenced by polling, he would have fired me,” tweeted Christie, in remarks similar to those made earlier in the day on ABC’s “This Week. “He is guilty of doing that himself-Wow.”

Comey suggested that Clinton would have been perceived as an “illegitimate president” had he concealed the restart and Clinton had won.

Christie, now an ABC contributor, served as the U.S attorney for New Jersey from 2002 to 2008. Comey held the same post from the Southern District of New York from 2002 to 2003, then became the U.S. deputy attorney general from 2003 to 2005.

The federal investigation focused on Clinton’s use of a private email server while secretary of state. Comey concluded in July 2016 that Clinton had been “extremely careless” in her handling of classified material but recommended the Justice Department not pursue criminal charges.

“We're not supposed to care about politics as prosecutors. But what we find out from his interview … that Jim Comey did care about politics. It is so depressing as somebody who spent seven years in the Justice Department trying to make sure it worked the right way,” Christie also tweeted Sunday.

“What he's proving in his interview is that the president may have been right to fire him. Don't agree with how it was done, but in the interview Jim Comey is acknowledging that he took into account politics in making investigative decisions. And that breaks all the rules.”

Comey, in the interview aired Sunday, defended his handling of the Clinton case and made clear he wrestled with the decision to reveal the case was being revisited days before the election. Comey claimed he wasn’t trying to favor one candidate over the other but instead tried to do “the right thing.” In the interview, he also called President Trump "morally unfit" to be president.

The president fired Comey in May 2017, as the federal investigation into whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia to influence the 2016 White House race heated up, saying he had lost confidence in Comey’s ability to lead the FBI.

The bureau reviewed a copy of Comey's book in advance of its release, set for Tuesday.

“Pursuant to the FBI's Prepublication Review policy, former Director James Comey submitted a draft of his book to the FBI for review. The FBI reviewed the draft and concluded that none of the FBI information presented fell within a restricted area of disclosure," the FBI said in a statement.

Alan Dershowitz, a Harvard law professor whom Trump now consults, on Monday was also critical of Comey’s comments and actions related to the Clinton investigation and aftermath.

“I really thought he demeaned the FBI by leaking material about unsubstantiated allegations, by trafficing in gossip.”

He also said Comey’s decision to leak to press that the investigation was being reopened, instead of announcing it, lacked “courage.”President Trump blasted James Comey early Monday, criticizing the former FBI chief and former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe for allegedly lying to Congress, suggesting they “committed many crimes!”

In a morning tweet Monday, just hours after Comey’s first interview since his termination aired, the president ripped Comey for his handling of the Clinton email probe, and said he based his decisions throughout the investigation on 2016 presidential poll numbers.

“Comey drafted the Crooked Hillary exoneration long before he talked to her (lied in Congress to Senator G), then based his decisions on her poll numbers. Disgruntled, he, McCabe, and others, committed many crimes!” Trump tweeted.

“Senator G” appears to reference Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa. Grassley, who, during Comey’s testimony before the committee last June, asked whether Comey had ever been an anonymous source to the media—a topic Trump hit again last month.

Comey testified last year that after he was fired from his post, he asked his “close friend,” Columbia University Law Professor Daniel Richman, to share the contents of a memo with notes of one of his first meetings with Trump.

COMEY RIPS OBAMA FOR COMMENTS ON CLINTON CASE: HE 'JEOPARDIZED' DOJ

“I asked a friend of mine to share the content of a memo with a reporter,” Comey testified. “I didn’t do it myself for a variety of reasons but I asked him to because I thought that might prompt the appointment of a special counsel.”

As the for the “poll numbers,” during the exclusive interview on ABC News with George Stephanopoulos on Sunday night, when discussing Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, Comey referenced poll numbers.

“All of us were operating in a world where the polls were showing Donald Trump had no chance,” Comey said, referring to the weeks and months leading up to the election.

In an excerpt of his book, obtained by The New York Times, Comey wrote: “It is entirely possible that, because I was making decisions in an environment where Hillary Clinton was sure to be the next president, my concern about making her an illegitimate president by concealing the restarted investigation bore greater weight than it would have if the election appeared closer or if Donald Trump were ahead in all polls. But I don’t know.”

Trump has criticized Comey in the days leading up to the airing of the interview, and the release of his memoir “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” set to hit bookstores Tuesday.

Trump ripped Comey as an “untruthful slime ball,” a “leaker” and a “liar.”

As for McCabe, Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired the deputy director just days before he became eligible to collect his pension. Last Friday, Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz issued a damning report on McCabe that led to his firing. The report said that McCabe leaked a self-serving story to the press and later lied about it to Comey and federal investigators.

“DOJ just issued McCabe report –which is a total disaster. He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey—McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes!” Trump tweeted Friday.EXCLUSIVE: The Hillary Clinton Campaign and the Democratic National Committee allegedly used state chapters as strawmen to launder as much as $84 million in an effort to circumvent campaign donation limits, and the Federal Election Commission ignored complaints exposing the practice, a lawsuit filed Monday claims.



The Committee to Defend the President (CDP), a political action committee formally known as Stop Hillary PAC, filed its complaint with the FEC in December 2017 with the claims that the Hillary Victory Fund (HVF) solicited cash from big-name donors, and allegedly sent that money through state chapters and back to the DNC before ending up with the Clinton campaign.

As first reported by Fox News at the time, the CDP alleges in its complaint that about $84 million was funneled illegally from the DNC through state party chapters and back into the war chest of the Clinton campaign. The political action committee claims that even though the FEC acknowledged receipt of the complaint and claimed that an investigation would be conducted, the needle has barely moved.

“The Clinton machine has escaped accountability for its illegal practices for far too long,” Ted Harvey, CDP chairman, said to Fox News. “After months of review, the FEC has refused to address the Clintons’ $84 million money laundering scheme that violated several campaign finance laws.”

On Monday, the CDP filed a lawsuit against the FEC with the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. They claim that the commission failed to act, calling the inaction “arbitrary, capricious, contrary to law, and an abuse of discretion.”

A copy of the suit obtained by Fox News urges the court to exercise its statutory authority under the Federal Election Campaign Act and take action against what they say is an unprecedented scheme to circumvent federal campaign finance law.

“We urge the Court to step in and demand action from the FEC,” Harvey said. “The American people demand that our most corrupt political figures answer for their transgressions.”

In its original complaint, the CDP alleges that about $84 million was funneled illegally from the DNC through state party chapters and back into the war chest of the Clinton campaign.

'You will be notified as soon as the Federal Election Commission takes final action on your complaint . . .' - - FEC letter to Committee to Defend the President

“Based on publicly available FEC records, repeatedly throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, HVF would purportedly transfer funds to its constituent political committees, which included between 34 and 40 state parties,” reads a passage from a copy of the complaint. “On the very same day each of these transfers supposedly occurred, or occasionally the very next day, every single one of those state parties purportedly contributed all of those funds to the DNC.”

The complaint filed against the FEC said previous reports showed a series of transactions in which the HVF disbursed contributions to its state party committee members -- and they would receive the funds on the same day. The HVF would also allegedly disburse funds to up to 40 state parties at the same time, and those parties would send the money back within 24 hours.

The CDP received a letter of acknowledgment from the FEC in the days after their December 15 filing.

“You will be notified as soon as the Federal Election Commission takes final action on your complaint,” reads the letter, a copy of which was provided to Fox News. “Should you receive any additional information on this matter, please forward it to the Office of the General Counsel.”

Officials for the FEC declined to comment when reached for comment, citing an open investigation.

“A provision of federal campaign finance law requires that any Commission action on an enforcement matter be kept strictly confidential until the case is resolved,” reads an FEC statement provided to Fox News. “To comply with this legal commitment and to protect the interests of those involved, we have a policy of not commenting on matters that are before the agency.”The nearly two dozen Tomahawk missiles fired from the decks of the USS Higgins toward targets in Syria are seen lighting up the night sky in footage released Monday by the Department of Defense.

The Pentagon said Saturday the U.S.-led allied missile strikes in Syria successfully hit all three targets and have “significantly crippled” Syrian President Bashar Assad’s ability to make more chemical weapons. The Higgins destroyer launched 23 missiles in all, the military added.

“We believe we degraded their ability to use chemical weapons to kill people,” State Department Spokesperson Heather Nauert told ‘America’s Newsroom’ Monday.

Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie said 105 missiles were launched by air and sea, all hitting their targets within minutes.

The strikes, in Douma, near Damascus, were launched in response to an April 7 chemical attack, the latest in country’s years-long civil war. The U.S. and European allies determined the Assad regime was behind the assault.

President Trump on Saturday hailed the strikes and thanked U.S. allies for joining in the campaign.

"A perfectly executed strike last night,” he tweeted. “Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!"

McKenzie, a Marine Corps general, said he has no reports of civilian casualties following the U.S.-led strikes and that the attacks overnight Friday were launched from U.S., France and United Kingdom aircraft and ships, including those in the Persian Gulf, Red Sea and eastern Mediterranean Sea.

Fox News' Joseph Weber, Lucas Tomlinson and Yonat Friling contributed to this report.An incredible trove of silver treasure linked to the era of a famous Viking king has been discovered on an island in the Baltic Sea.

Hundreds of 1,000-year-old silver coins, rings, pearls and bracelets have been found on the German island of Ruegen. The haul includes a piece of jewelry depicting “Thor’s hammer,” according to Ostsee-Zeitung.

Archaeologists said about 100 of the silver coins are probably from the reign of Harald Gormsson, better known as "Harald Bluetooth," who lived in the 10th century and introduced Christianity to Denmark. The king, who earned his nickname on account of a dead tooth that appeared blue, is a significant historical figure who unified parts of Scandinavia.

VIKING SWORD DISCOVERY: HUNTER FINDS 1,100-YEAR-OLD WEAPON ON NORWEGIAN MOUNTAIN

Harald Bluetooth was one of the last Viking kings of what is now Denmark, northern Germany, southern Sweden and parts of Norway.

Bluetooth wireless technology, invented by Swedish telecom company Ericsson to connect computers and wireless devices, is named after the king.

A single silver coin was first found in January by two amateur archaeologists, one of them a 13-year-old boy, in a field near the Ruegen village of Schaprode. The state archaeology office then became involved and the entire treasure was uncovered by experts over the weekend, the Mecklenburg-West Pomerania state archaeology office said Monday.

TINY VIKING CRUCIFIX COULD REWRITE HISTORY

"It's the biggest trove of such coins in the southeastern Baltic region," archaeologists said, in a statement.

Other artifacts from the time of Harald Bluetooth have been found in the area. In the 19th century the “Hiddensee treasure,” a trove of stunning gold jewelry was found on a nearby island.

The Ruegen silver treasure is just the latest fascinating archaeological find from the Viking era. Last year, for example, an incredibly well-preserved Viking sword was found by a reindeer hunter on a remote mountain in Southern Norway. In 2016, archaeologists in Trondheim, Norway, unearthed the church where Viking King Olaf Haraldsson was first enshrined as a saint.

VIKING DISCOVERY: EXPERTS USE TECH TO REVEAL SETTLEMENT BENEATH SAINT-KING'S CHURCH

Also, in 2016, a tiny Viking crucifix was found in Denmark.

The Associated Press contributed to this article.

Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersPlanned Parenthood’s political arm in Wisconsin has been fined for failing to appropriately report nearly $120,000 in independent expenditures allocated in support of Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton and Russ Feingold during 2016 elections.

The Federal Election Commission (FEC) found discrepancies in Planned Parenthood Advocates of Wisconsin’s October 2016 report that claimed over $133,000 worth of expenditures on political candidates, an FEC report said.

Nearly $120,000 spent in August on Clinton and Democrat Feingold -- who tried but failed to unseat Republican Sen. Ron Johnson in 2016 -- were never shown in any previous 48-hour filing up until the October report, two months later when it was required.

The Planned Parenthood group reportedly spent $58,449.04 in support for Clinton and as much in support of Feingold.

The group will have to pay a $5,850 fine for the wrongdoing, the Washington Free Beacon reported.

Nationwide, Planned Parenthood’s political arm went all-out for Clinton and other Democrats during the presidential election and Senate races in targeted states, spending $30 million in an effort to mobilize voters to support Democrats in 2016, the New York Times reported.

The Wisconsin-based group denied it purposely incorrectly submitted the filings, blaming the error on its filing staff that misunderstood the requirements set out by the FEC.

"This error was due to a misunderstanding of the requirements by filing staff, who mistakenly believed 48-hour reports were not required unless expenditures were made within 20 days of the election,” the group wrote to the FEC in August 2017.

"Staff has since been trained on all required reports and how to monitor aggregate amounts so that appropriate 48-hour reports will be made going forward, in addition to required 24-hour reports. Staff has created an internal memo on reporting so that any new staff filing reports will be appropriately trained before filing. This training has been added to a compliance checklist for election related processes,” it added.Defending his July 2016 public statement about the Hillary Clinton email case, then-FBI Director James Comey told senior agents later that year he worried the Justice Department would "screw around" with a decision on whether to prosecute her, and he said that regardless of what happened, "we knew it was going to suck in a huge way," according to an FBI transcript reviewed by Fox News.

In October 2016, Michael Kortan, who was serving as the FBI's public affairs chief but has since retired, shared the transcript of Comey's comments on the Clinton case delivered behind closed doors to special agents in charge. Based on the email date and time stamps, it appears the comments were made three weeks before the presidential election. With Comey now launching a media tour to promote his book, "A Higher Loyalty," the transcript provides a window into his thinking and decisions during a critical period before the election.

According to the transcript, Comey told agents he went back and forth on how to handle the recommendation against criminal charges, after then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch met with Bill Clinton on an Arizona airport tarmac in June 2016.

"The decision that there wasn't a prosecutable case here was not a hard one. The hard one, as I've told you, was how do we communicate about it. I decided to do something unprecedented that I was very nervous about at the time, and I've asked myself a thousand times since, was it the right decision. I still believe it was."

Comey's decision to deviate from standard procedures is central to the Justice Department inspector general's investigation into the FBI's and DOJ's handling of the Clinton email case.

Comey said he thought the FBI should have taken the lead because following standard procedures was not an option. "...what will happen to us is the Department of Justice will screw around it for Lord knows how long, issue probably a one sentence declination, and then the world will catch on fire, and then the cry in the public will be where on the earth is the FBI, how could the FBI be part of some corrupt political bargain like this, there's no transparency whatsoever..."

He continued, "We knew it was going to suck in a huge way. I knew. Nothing's (sic) that's happened, by the way, the storm has been outside my expectations. I knew what was going to happen, but I also knew after a lot of reflection that we would do far more damage to our beloved institution if we did the normal thing."

Comey also relayed to agents a conversation he said he had with Lynch before the July 2016 announcement. "'Madam Attorney General, I'm about to do a press conference, and I'm not going to tell you what I'm going to say.' She asked some question. I don't remember what it was, and I said, 'I'm sorry. I'm not going to answer approximately (sic) questions. I hope someday you'll understand why, but I think it's very, very important that I do this independently.'"

Using colorful language, Comey also said agents would likely be fired for using a personal unsecured server like Secretary of State Clinton did for government business, and pushed back on criticism of the FBI's handling of the case.

Comey responded to emails from FBI employees who said, "if I did what Hillary Clinton did I'd be in huge trouble." He replied, "My response is you bet your a-- you'd be in huge trouble. If you used a personal email, Gmail or if you (had) the capabilities to set up your own email domain, if you used an unclassified personal email system to do our business in the course of doing our business even though you were communicating with people with clearances and doing work you discussed classified matters in that, in those communications, TSSCI (Top Secret Sensitive Compartmented Information), special access program (SAP), you would be in huge trouble in the FBI. You would not be able to say to us, 'The people I was emailing with were cleared. It was all in the course of the work.'"

Comey continued, "You might well get fired from the FBI. You would surely be disciplined in some severe way if you didn't get fired. Of that I am highly confident." He then seemed to reinforce his controversial recommendation against criminal charges in the Clinton case for the mishandling of classified information, that under the criminal statute, does not require intent.

"I'm also highly confident, in fact, certain you would not be criminally prosecuted for that conduct. Why do I say that? Because I have personally gone back through every case in the last 50 years that was prosecuted. Nothing close to these facts was ever prosecuted. You would be in trouble. You would not be prosecuted."

Comey referred to the FBI investigators as an "all star team" but many have since been demoted, fired, or re-assigned as a result of the IG investigation. These individuals included deputy director Andy McCabe, who was fired; Peter Strzok, who was deputy assistant director of the counterintelligence division before he was demoted to Human Resources; and Strzok’s mistress and FBI attorney Lisa Page, who was reassigned. Kortan announced his retirement this past February.

In a portion of the transcript, which was redacted, Comey spoke of the challenge in "trying to get a lawyer to give you their laptop that you use for all of their legal work. Huge concerns there about attorney-client privilege, attorney work product. He had a few options there." It was unclear who "he" was. Comey said, “Near the end of this Investigation, we knew that two of Secretary Clinton’s lawyers had done a culling where they went through the emails and decided which ones were work related and which ones weren’t, which ones could be deleted, which ones would be kept and produced. “

FBI interviews known as 302s revealed that only 12 of 14 bankers boxes of Clinton's emails were picked up from the law firm Williams & Connolly. David Kendall, an attorney at the firm, has represented Bill and Hillary Clinton together and separately, from the former president’s sex scandals to the missing billing records reflecting Hillary Clinton’s work as a partner in the Rose Law Firm in Arkansas.

Comey told agents they could "ask me more questions about this (and) obviously Bill Priestap knows this case (very) well. Andy (McCabe) knows this case very well."

This comment is striking because Comey testified in 2017 that Priestap -- who reported to Comey as the assistant director of counterintelligence -- told him not to inform Congressional leadership about the bureau's investigation into alleged contacts between Russian officials and the Trump campaign.

"It is silly. Silly is the right word to suggest the FBI did anything other than our usual professional work here. I’m very proud of the work we did."

Based on Kortan’s email, that was the end of Comey’s speech to senior agents about the Clinton case.

Fox News provided the FBI with the email date, time, sender and subject line, as well as lengthy quotes, to locate the record for comment, but the FBI gave no comment. Many lawmakers questioned why the record was not provided more promptly to Congress.

Fox News also sent a series of questions to the publisher of Comey’s book. They included a request for comment from Comey on his statements to FBI agents, whether it was standard for FBI public affairs to share transcripts from closed-door sessions outside the bureau, whether Comey authorized it and for what law enforcement purpose. There was no immediate response.James Comey is often the subject of praise from the mainstream media for his constant attacks on President Trump, but the former FBI director is now receiving fire from the left.



Comey’s promotional book tour kicked off on Sunday night with an hour-long interview with ABC News chief anchor George Stephanopoulos. Buildup to the interview dominated social media and political talk shows in the days leading up to the primetime special and some pundits spoke out against the ex-FBI boss ahead of the sitdown.

Lanny Davis, a former special counsel to President Clinton, slammed Comey as a “liar” in an Op-Ed for The Hill.

“It is time -- accurately -- to call Comey a liar for this crucial, self-serving rationalization for his action that made Donald Trump president,” Davis wrote.

Davis urged Comey to “admit the truth” about his Oct. 28, 2016, letter that reopened an inquiry into Hillary Clinton’s personal email server.

“You wrote the letter not because you had to in order to fulfill a promise to Congress, but because you wanted to protect your political rear end from anti-Clinton Republican partisans. Period,” Davis wrote.

Last week, Associated Press reporter Zeke Miller called Comey’s book “petty,” while Vanity Fair reporter Tina Nguyen seems to agree with Fox News’ Chris Wallace that, “Higher Loyalty" comes off as bitchy at times.

“Indeed, the book’s bitchiness seemed to be the primary concern of the far right,” Nguyen wrote.

CNN’s David Gergen took a break from praising Comey to admit he “can be a showboat,” while CNN law enforcement analyst and former FBI Special Agent James Gagliano called Comey a “feckless leader.”

CNN’s David Axelrod, former senior adviser to President Barack Obama, questioned the timing of the book’s release, asking, “Maybe he should have called it Higher Royalties?” FiveThirtyEight’s Nate Silver tweeted that it was not “particularly honorable” for Comey to sit on information that is vital to the nation until he had a book to promote.

“If Comey's decision to release the letter on Oct. 28 was influenced by his interpretation of the polls, that really ought to cut against his image as an honorable, principled decision-maker. Instead, he was just being expedient and trying to save his own hide,” Silver wrote.

Criticism of Comey intensified once the interview finally aired on Sunday evening.

Alan Dershowitz called him a "man without courage," and Washington Post media reporter Paul Farhi tweeted, "One striking thing in this interview about James Comey: He seems to have a lot of pity for James Comey.”

Council on Foreign Relations President Richard Haass appeared on MSNBC’s anti-Trump “Morning Joe,” and said Comey seemed to be talking to himself “almost without a compass” during the interview with Stephanopoulos.

“He did nothing to persuade us that his various interventions in the run-up to the election were justified,” Haass said. “It just seemed to me he took on a disproportionate role in American politics without the mandate to do it.”

Some members of the mainstream media had issues with the way ABC News presented the interview. New York magazine star Olivia Nuzzi echoed what a lot of media watchdogs were presumably thinking with a tweet about the significant height difference between the two men.

“This interview is difficult for me to watch because James Comey is six foot eight and George Stephanopulos is ‘five foot seven’ (lol k) and I keep imagining what it would be like if Stephanopoulos conducted the interview while sitting on Comey's lap like he's Santa,” Nuzzi wrote.

The interview was clearly a tall order for Stephanopulos, and not just because of the height difference. ABC News was forced to edit down a five-hour chat into a 60-minute television event and not everyone as thrilled with the outcome.

Filmmaker Liz Garbus tweeted, “This is very distracting and makes it hard to feel like we're getting the full context of his answers.” New York University journalism professor Jay Rosen added, “This interview is VERY aggressively edited. Almost every sentence is ended by the ABC producers, not by Comey.”

CNN analyst and author Bill Carter said it was hard to be precise about the intent of his words because ABC edited the TV version “like a traveler trying to sit on an overfull suitcase” that felt rushed.

Last week, Press Secretary Sarah Sanders slammed the media for giving so much attention to “disgraced, partisan hack” Comey.

“You guys spend hours upon hours every single day praising Jim Comey, propping him up, giving him the biggest platform,” Sanders said. “We shouldn't be praising him. We should be putting him down and taking him off of air instead of giving him minute after minute.”

While the spotlight won’t be taken off Comey anytime soon, it appears some members of the liberal media actually agree with Sanders for a change.Ousted FBI Director James Comey, in his forthcoming book and a tell-all interview promoting it, ripped former President Barack Obama for comments made during the bureau’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server, suggesting he “jeopardized” the Justice Department’s “credibility.”

In his first interview since leaving his post in May 2017, Comey sat down with ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos to discuss everything from the 2016 election to the Russia meddling probe to the now-infamous Trump dossier. He was unsparing in his criticism of President Trump, calling him “morally unfit to be president.”

But in a portion of the interview that did not air during ABC News’ Sunday night special, Comey also criticized Obama with regard to his comments on the Clinton email probe.

“We had the problem that President Obama had twice publicly basically said, 'There’s no there, there.' In an interview with—on Fox, an interview on '60 Minutes,' I think. Both times he said that. So that’s his Justice Department,” Comey said, noting that it “really did surprise” him.

COMEY CALLS TRUMP 'MORALLY UNFIT TO BE PRESIDENT,' SAYS HE WOULDN'T HAVE CHANGED HANDLING OF CLINTON PROBE

“He’s a very smart man and a lawyer. And so it surprised me. He shouldn’t have done it. It was inappropriate,” Comey said.

In October 2015, Obama told “60 Minutes” that Clinton had made a “mistake” with her private email server use but it did not endanger national security. In April 2016, he told “Fox News Sunday” that national security was not endangered, and Clinton would never “intentionally” put the country in jeopardy.

When asked in his latest ABC interview whether Obama could have been trying to “color” the Clinton case, Comey said he was unsure.

“I think he felt a pressure in the political environment because he wanted Hillary Clinton to be elected, to give her a shot in the arm, and so he spoke about an investigation. And he shouldn’t have done that,” Comey said. “But as you can imagine, creating this drumbeat that the Obama Justice Department, the fix is in because the president has told them what result they should reach.”

The interview launched Comey’s book tour for his new memoir “A Higher Loyalty,” which will be released on Tuesday. In an excerpt of the book, obtained by Washington Examiner, Comey also discussed his concerns with Obama's comments.

“Contributing to this problem, regrettably, was President Obama. He had jeopardized the Department of Justice’s credibility in the investigation by saying in a '60 Minutes' interview on Oct. 11, 2015 that Clinton’s email use was a ‘mistake’ that had not endangered national security,” Comey wrote, adding that he also said Clinton did "not do anything to intentionally harm national security" during the interview on Fox News in April 2016.

“To this day, I don’t know why he spoke about the case publicly and seemed to absolve her before a final determination was made,” Comey wrote. “If the president had already decided the matter, an outside observer could reasonably wonder, how on earth could his Department of Justice do anything other than follow his lead.”

During the interview, which aired in part on ABC News Sunday night and was posted on the network's website, Comey also recalled a conversation with Obama following the election of Donald Trump. ABC News also posted an interview transcript.

“[Obama] said he didn’t want to talk to me about any particular case, ‘cause he was very scrupulous about that. And he said, ‘but I want to just tell you something generally. I appointed you to be FBI director because of your integrity and your ability,’” Comey said. “And then he looked me in the eye and said, ‘nothing has happened, nothing, in the last year that has changed my view of that.’ And look, he wasn’t telling me, ‘I agree with what you did,’ he wasn’t telling me ‘you made the right decision.’ He was telling me, ‘I know where it came from, I know you’re not a partisan hack. I know you’re trying to do the right thing.’”

Comey added: “It meant a lot to me. I mean, I had not been a political supporter of President Obama’s.”

Throughout the course of the interview, Comey also criticized former Attorney General Loretta Lynch for her instruction to call the Clinton email case a “matter” rather than an “investigation.”

“It gave me an uncomfortable feeling because the Clinton campaign, since the matter had come in, the investigation had started in July, had been trying to come up with other words to describe it,” Comey said, noting that they used “review” and “security referral” to describe the case. “It did worry me that the attorney general’s direction was tracking that effort to avoid using the word ‘investigation.’”

Just days ahead of Comey’s public announcement that the FBI would not bring charges against Clinton, Lynch and former President Bill Clinton had a meeting on a tarmac in Phoenix, Arizona, which has long been criticized. Lynch, last week in an exclusive NBC interview, again said the two discussed “innocuous things” like grandchildren and “issues of the day.”

Comey criticized that meeting, but said he thinks Lynch is an “honest person” and said he found it “hard to believe” that “Bill Clinton would’ve tried to obstruct justice by walking across the tarmac.”Oliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, Russia

Pence to Russia: 'You're On the Wrong Side of History'

Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said President Trump missed an opportunity to "get it right" in Syria.

The United States, Britain and France on Friday launched airstrikes on Syrian military and chemical weapons facilities, which came days after a suspected chemical attack on civilians by the regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad.

Although the U.S.-led operation included 100 advanced missiles launched at three targets, Graham pointed out that Trump reportedly selected one of the more restrained proposals designed by the Pentagon.

He said the president has done a good job on foreign policy thus far -- from North Korea to Iran to Russia -- but his position on Assad and Syria "puts all that in jeopardy."

"If you're Assad, you heard our president saying, 'I'm going to make you pay a big price, you're an animal.' And what did Assad see? A military strike that didn't change his life at all. So Assad wakes up the next day and goes back to work," Graham explained.

He added that Russia and Iran see that the Pentagon is "risk-averse," which will only further embolden them.

Graham said it appears that Trump is still poised to pull the U.S. entirely out of Syria, which he said would be an "absolute disaster" for the region.

"Unless something changes, we don’t care if you kill people, we only care how you kill them, which is a long way from where Ronald Reagan was," Graham said. "Ronald Reagan believed in shaping history, not just washing your hands of it."

GOP Rep, Retired Navy SEAL: Trump's Syria Action 'Measured, Calculated'

Charlize Theron Considers Leaving America: 'Racism Is Much More Alive and Well'The White House reacted Sunday night to France’s claim that it “convinced” President Donald Trump to maintain the U.S. military presence in Syria, shortly after the two allies took part in airstrikes against the Assad regime.

“Ten days ago, President Trump wanted to withdraw from Syria. We convinced him to remain,” French President Emmanuel Macron said live on French television BFM and online investigative site Mediapart.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said in response: “The U.S. mission has not changed — the president has been clear that he wants U.S. forces to come home as quickly as possible. We are determined to completely crush ISIS and create the conditions that will prevent its return. In addition we expect our regional allies and partners to take greater responsibility both militarily and financially for securing the region.”

The U.S., France and the U.K. launched the airstrikes early Saturday in a joint operation, saying it was in response to the deadly chemical attack on Syrian civilians — an attack they linked to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Macron said the U.S., Britain and France had “full international legitimacy to intervene” with the strikes, to enforce international humanitarian law.

“It was retaliation, not an act of war,” Macron said in justifying the operation a day before the French parliament was set to debate it.

He also claimed France was the most active country in the diplomatic arena and at the United Nations, and said his country wanted to include Western powers, Russia and Turkey in a new diplomatic initiative to find a sustainable political solution in Syria.

Macron also offered to play the role of intermediary between the United States and Russia, whose relationship has been on edge over the chemical attack and amid allegations that Russia tried to interfere in the U.S. 2016 presidential election.

The French leader, described as centrist and pro-free-market, is set to make a state visit to the U.S. next week and is scheduled to travel to Russia next month.

Many leaders around the globe also voiced support and understanding for the airstrikes against Syria, but warned against allowing the seven-year conflict to escalate.

“Strikes by US, France and UK make it clear that Syrian regime together with Russia & Iran cannot continue this human tragedy, at least not without cost. The EU will stand with our allies on the side of justice,” European Council President Donald Tusk tweeted.

European Union Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker said: “The international community has the responsibility to identify and hold accountable those responsible of any attack with chemical weapons. This was not the first time that the Syrian regime has used chemical weapons against civilians but it must be the last.”

The NATO alliance gave its full backing; NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said the attack was about ensuring that chemical weapons cannot be used with impunity. Stoltenberg said: “Before the attack took place last night, NATO allies exhausted all other possible ways to address this issue to the U.N. Security Council but ... were blocked by Russia ... I am not saying that the attacks … solved all problems but compared to the alternative to do nothing, this was the right thing to do.”

While Trump declared success, the Pentagon said the pummeling of three chemical-related facilities left enough others intact to enable the Assad government to use banned weapons against civilians if it chooses.

“We support the fact that our U.S., UK and French allies took on responsibility in this way as permanent members of the U.N. Security Council. The military strike was necessary and appropriate in order to preserve the effectiveness of the international ban on the use of chemical weapons and to warn the Syrian regime against further violations,” German Chancellor Angela Merkel said.

U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Nikki Haley made clear the United States would not pull troops out of Syria right away, saying U.S. involvement there “is not done.”

Haley said the three U.S. goals for accomplishing its mission have been making sure chemical weapons are not used in a way that could harm U.S. national interests, defeating the Islamic State terror group and having a good vantage point to watch what Iran is doing.

“We’re not going to leave until we know we’ve accomplished those things,” she said.

Haley said the joint military strike “put a heavy blow into their chemical weapons program, setting them back years” and reiterated that if Assad uses poison gas again, “the United States is locked and loaded.”

Fox News’ Jenny Buchholz and The Associated Press contributed to this report.A 3,000-year old bronze vessel that was looted by a British soldier from an imperial palace in Beijing fetched $581,600 at auction this week despite objections from the Chinese government.

The vessel, referred to as Tiger Ying because of its tiger decorations, was auctioned at Canterbury Auction Galleries in England on Wednesday, reports the South China Morning Post.

The teapot, which reportedly dates to the Western Zhou dynasty, is believed to be one of only seven similar vessels to even exist. Five of them are housed in museums.

RARE TITANIC LOVE LETTER OFFERS INSIGHT INTO LIFE ON THE DOOMED OCEAN LINER

The buyer’s identity is a mystery.

According to documents discovered by the auction house, the vessel was looted by Harry Lewis Evans, a Royal Marines captain who fought in the Second Opium War in the 1850s.

Chinese authorities are not happy about the auction.

China’s State Administration of Cultural Heritage denounced the auction, saying it “strongly opposes and condemns Canterbury Auction Galleries’ insistence on auctioning the suspected illegally discharged cultural artifact despite solemn protests from China.”

The government agency also accused the house of “conducting commercial hype” around looted cultural relics, reports the South China Morning Post.

Dr Cheng Xiaohe, an associate professor of international relations at China’s Renmin University, said the issue is important to the Chinese people because the “burning of Yuanmingyuan has been a symbol of shame for Chinese people for many years.”

The destruction of the palace, which involved 3,000 British troops and a fire that raged for three days, also resulted over 300 deaths.

Xiaohe told the Straits Times: “The Tiger Ying was taken by the British soldier, who is a real historical figure. Therefore, this act of plunder is an eternal pain in the hearts of the Chinese people.”A former security guard for the Church of Scientology is claiming there is an ongoing rivalry between its two most famous members: Tom Cruise and John Travolta.

Brendan Tighe, who was a Scientologist for 30 years, told UK’s Daily Mail Monday the two Hollywood stars have “furiously vied” for the official Number Two position under leader David Miscavige.

Reps for the actors did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment.

“Cruise is the only celeb with a direct line to Miscavige,” claimed the 37-year-old. “Travolta and Kirstie [Alley] don’t have that.”

Tighe added, “Travolta doesn’t get anything free, no one is giving him absurd gifts like an airplane hangar, custom-made bikes or over the top favors,” apparently referring to presents offered to the "Top Gun" star.

'Travolta wasn’t invited to Cruise’s wedding with Katie Holmes, [which] told me everything' - Brendan Tighe

Cruise, 55, was reportedly awarded the Freedom Medal of Valor in 2008, which is recognized as the highest award in Scientology given to its most dedicated member. This recognition allegedly made Travolta, 64, “explode in jealousy.” Tighe insisted Travolta felt he was the “favorite son” of Miscavige.

“It’s no secret that Cruise and Travolta despised each other,” he claimed. “Travolta wasn’t invited to Cruise’s wedding with Katie Holmes, [which] told me everything. I can assure you Travolta doesn’t recognize Cruise as a superior in any way. When Cruise got that medal Travolta was so p---ed off.”

“The closest person Miscavige had ever said that about before was Travolta, he was told by Miscavige that he was the most dedicated Scientologist and had introduced more members than anyone, so it was like getting his title stripped. He was jealous.”

The ex-Scientologist also insisted, “I’d say it’s a 50/50 split whether Cruise is even respected in Scientology. When Cruise got the medal, the Office of Special Affairs [the spy unit of Scientology] was on high alert for any comments that were negative – it built up a lot of resentment within the ranks of Scientology. They didn’t think he deserved it.”

Tighe, who previously worked at Scientology’s global headquarters in Clearwater, Fla., was born in the Church along with his sister Natalie, 36. Their mother, Katie Paquette, is still a high-ranking Scientology staff member today and their father, Kevin Tighe, was formerly a public Church member.

Tighe quit his post as a security guard in 2009 after “a succession of incidents with higher command” and left the Church two years later. His mother and sister are still members. He said he hopes his story will shed new light on its celebrity followers.Vanity Fair is hoping to shed light on what may have happened to the first lady of Scientology.

Shelly Miscavige, the wife of Church of Scientology leader David Miscavige, is the subject of a new documentary airing Monday titled “Vanity Fair Confidential: Scientology’s Vanished Queen.”

The couple married in 1980.

The show, which is part of the “Vanity Fair Confidential” series, is based on the March 2014 exposé by the magazine that questioned what happened to Shelly, who allegedly disappeared in 2007.

“The series takes viewers deep inside the Vanity Fair vaults for a closer look into some of the esteemed publication’s most shocking stories, featuring exclusive interviews with those closest to each case — including insights from the Vanity Fair writers and editors who worked on the original article,” reads a release sent to Fox News.

According to the magazine, sources claim church members rarely ask about her to avoid being shunned by the group. Church spokespeople have repeatedly denied Shelly is missing.

Some Scientology defectors insisted Shelly was exiled to one of “several secretive and heavily guarded bases the church owns in remote western locales.”

They added those who are so-called banned allegedly “endure lives of isolation, menial labor and penury.”

Church representatives have called Vanity Fair’s questions on Shelly “ludicrous and offensive.”

This isn’t the first time Shelly has been showcased in a television show.

Back in December 2016, former Scientology member Leah Remini raised the explosive topic of Shelly’s whereabouts in a special episode of her A&E series, “Scientology and the Aftermath.”

The former “King of Queens” actress left the Church of Scientology in 2013 after having been a member since childhood.

Remini, who was so alarmed by Shelly’s disappearance that she questioned guests at Tom Cruise’s 2006 wedding to Katie Holmes, reportedly outraged Scientology members.

Shelly is allegedly a close friend of Cruise’s, the church’s most famous member.

In 2013, Remini filed a missing report regarding Shelly with the Los Angeles Police Department. It’s been reported that detectives closed the missing person case after saying they had met with Shelly in person.

Still, Remini continues to wonder about the well-being of the Scientology boss’ wife.

On her A&E episode, ex-Scientologist member Mike Rinder claimed that for a long time Shelly was at a property the church owned near Lake Arrowhead in California.

“She was sent there when she displeased David Miscavige,” claimed Rinder. “Shelly was privy to everything that went on with Dave.”

Remini responded, “Which is why I filed my police report. Which, by the way, I’m still following up on because there’s still answers that I need. I do not know that she is alive. I do not know that she’s not being held against her will.

"I do not know these things and so if the church produces her, by bringing her to an event – even if she went on a program and said, ‘Hi, Leah Remini. Go f—k yourself,’ I’d be happy to know that she was alive. The police department should say, ‘Yes, we’ve seen her.’ No, I wasn’t told that. I was told that a representative saw her or spoke to her. I’m going to continue to get and gather information.”

As the show noted, the church has stated the police report was filed in bad faith — and Scientologists has also challenged the credibility of Remini and all the contributors to her series.

In fact, the church has said on a website it launched to slam her claims, "Leah Remini's 'reality show'.... is nothing more than a scripted, rehearsed, acted and dramatized work of fiction. She and the other anti-Scientologists in her program have been expelled from the church for unethical conduct."

“Vanity Fair Confidential: Scientology’s Vanished Queen” airs Monday, March 12 on ID.Leah Remini thinks Tom Cruise could “single-handedly” end Scientology.

The 46-year-old actress and former Scientologist told Bill Maher on Friday about some of the strict practices that believers of the controversial religion have to reportedly follow, including hours-long sessions she described as “self-brainwashing.”

LEAH REMINI: WHERE IS SCIENTOLOGY LEADER'S WIFE?

“I didn’t realize that because we were required to study two-and-a-half hours daily, like minimum,” she said as reported by Us Weekly. “We are looking up the words, we are being checking out on the policies of Scientology.”

“You’re telling me Tom Cruise does this?” questioned the 61-year-old “Real Time” host.

“Yes,” responded Remini. “Not only does Tom Cruise do exactly that... Now, I don’t want you to get the idea that he’s not, that certain policies are not being bent for him because they are and that is the truth, and that is part of the hypocrisy.”

LEAH REMINI OPENS UP ABOUT EXPOSING SCIENTOLOGY

“He could end this,” she added when Maher suggested the 54-year-old actor could possibly put an end to the religion, then adding that his fame within the church holds major weight. She also claimed the church reveres Cruise so much that it is pushing the idea he is single-handedly “clearing the planet, is changing the planet.”

Last fall, Cruise broke his customary public silence about his involvement with Scientology while promoting his film “Jack Reacher: Never Go Back,” calling it a “beautiful religion.”

“It’s something that has helped me incredibly in my life,” said the “Mission Impossible” star. “It’s something, you know, without it, I wouldn’t be where I am…I’m incredibly proud."

Remini grew up as a Scientologist, but left the church in 2013. She had since hinted her relationship with Cruise has been rocky. In 2016, she released a memoir, titled “Troublemaker: Surviving Hollywood and Scientology” and an A&E docuseries, “Leah Remini: Scientology and the Aftermath” where she spoke up against the church.

LEAH REMINI SAYS TOM CRUISE THINKS SHE IS 'THE DEVIL'

The Church of Scientology has repeatedly denied Remini’s allegations.

“Leah Remini is doing this show for the money, just as she profited from her book,” said the organization in a statement to Us Weekly. “In addition, she attempted to extort the Church by first demanding $500,000, followed by an additional $1 million, because the Church invoked its First Amendment right to respond to her false claims with the truth.”

“This shows the extent Leah Remini is willing to go to in order to distort the truth about Scientology,” the organization added. “For the Church’s perspective and the truth about the bullies she now supports, go to www.leahreminiaftermath.com.”

Shocking new details have emerged concerning the woman who went overboard from a P&O cruise liner off the coast of New Caledonia on Thursday.

Police in Queensland, Australia, say the woman, identified as 47-year-old Brisbane resident Natasha Schofield, did not fall off the deck of the Pacific Dawn due to weather conditions or a listing ship, but rather that she jumped off of her own accord while her husband stood by helplessly, the Australian Associated Press (AAP) reports.

“This wasn’t an accident,” said police Inspector Rob Graham during a press conference on Sunday. “Let’s be open and honest about mental health.”

GUEST ON WOMAN GOING OVERBOARD: IT WAS 'THE WORST THING I'VE SEEN ON A CRUISE'

Schofield, who was also accompanied on the cruise with her two teenage sons and one teenage daughter, had reportedly been walking along the top deck of the ship with her husband on Thursday afternoon just before she leaped over the side, Graham said.

“I saw them leaning on the rails and I saw the intentional actions of the missing person take two steps back and then propel herself over the railing,” Graham stated, citing closed-circuit footage provided to police.

“I can also say that her husband tried in vain to grab her as she went over, grabbing onto her legs, but she was too far gone, and subsequently she fell.”

Schofield’s devastated husband immediately notified crew, who began rescue operations.

“We’re just lucky that there’s not two people missing,” Graham added.

WATCH: MSC CRUISE SMASHES INTO DOCK UPON ARRIVAL IN HONDURAS

Schofield first went overboard on Thursday afternoon at approximately 4 p.m., amid the Pacific Dawn’s week-long cruise through the Caribbean. The ship turned around and conducted search and rescue operations for Schofield, and life preservers were also thrown in the woman’s direction. A photo from a passenger confirms as much, with The Sun reporting that Schofield's head may be visible just a few feet to the right of the life preserver.

The search was called off early Friday morning. The captain informed guests the cruise would be continuing on toward Brisbane.

"Our thoughts and prayers are with the guest and her family at this time," said P&O in a statement obtained by Fox News on Friday.

On Friday, it was also reported that Schofield might have fallen off the deck of the ship, possibly due to a strong waves causing the ship to list from side to side. P&O denied any such conditions affecting the ship on that afternoon.

PREGNANT WOMAN UPSET WITH DISNEY CRUISE LINE AFTER FAMILY ESCORTED OUT BY ARMED OFFICER

Damon Smith, a man who says he was close friends with Schofield, stated in a Facebook post that Schofield would never "intentionally hurt her husband or children."

“She must have arrived in a very dark and desperate place in her mind, very very quickly,” read the post, per News.com.au.

The Pacific Dawn returned to Brisbane on Sunday. P&O Cruises, which is operated by Carnival Australia, has stated that it is cooperating with the investigation.

“We will be able to give police CCTV footage providing an unobstructed view of what happened and portraying an obviously devoted and loving couple,” said Carnival, per the AAP.

“We extend our deepest condolences to the family and hope that they will find comfort in their grief.”

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

The cruise operator is also making counseling services available for guests and crew members of the Pacific Dawn.Surveillance video released Monday shows a grandmother befriending a Florida resident days before she killed her to steal her identity — a plan she hoped would thwart the authorities hunting her in connection with her husband’s murder.

Officials launched a multi-state dragnet for Lois Reiss, 56, who's accused of killing her husband, David Reiss. Reiss' body was found on March 23 with multiple gunshot wounds. Lois Reiss vanished after her husband’s body was found, and her trail went cold until Pamela Hutchinson, 59, of Bradenton, Fla., was discovered dead.

New surveillance video released by the Lee County Sheriff’s Office show Reiss at Smokin’ Oyster Brewery on Fort Myers Beach on April 5 talking to Hutchinson. The new friends seem to hit it off talking at the bar – but Reiss’ allegedly had an ulterior motive for the chitchat.

Hutchinson was found shot dead last Monday, four days after the two were spotted on surveillance video. Police said Reiss — described as woman with brown eyes, blonde hair and 5 feet 5 inches tall — killed Hutchinson because they look similar.

"Ms. Hutchinson's purse was found to be in disarray and all cash, credit cards and identification appeared to be removed," Lee County Undersheriff Carmine Marceno said. "Further investigation revealed that Ms. Hutchinson was targeted by the suspect due to the similarities in their appearance."

Reiss took Hutchinson’s car, a white Acura TL with Florida license plate Y37TAA, and fled the state. The vehicle has been spotted in Louisiana and Corpus Christi, Texas, since Hutchinson died.

Florida authorities filed charges against Reiss on Friday, including murder, grand theft of a motor vehicle and grand theft and criminal use of personal identification. She also faces murder and theft charges in Minnesota after withdrawing $11,000 from her husband’s bank account by forging his signatures on checks, the Star Tribune reported.

Reiss’ husband was found dead after his business partner called police to conduct a welfare check on him. The business partner said David Reiss hadn’t appeared at work for more than two weeks. It’s unclear how long Reiss was dead when his body was found.

“No one in town suspected that,” Jenny Cashman, who knew the Reisses, told Star Tribune. “Everyone is kind of in shock about it.”

Reiss, who has a penchant for casinos, is believed to have stopped at an Iowa casino on her drive to Florida. The car she was in, a 2005 Cadillac Escalade, was found abandoned in a Florida park.

Reiss is considered armed and dangerous and authorities warned people to not approach her.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The bodies of a man and child found in an SUV that plunged into a California river were identified as members of the Thottapilly family who vanished in early April, authorities said Monday.

Search crews on Sunday found the bodies of Sandeep Thottapilly, 41, and Saachi Thottapilly, 9, inside an SUV that was pulled from the Eel River in Leggett, Calif. Another woman’s body found about seven miles from the scene over the weekend was identified as 38-year-old Soumya Thottapilly.

Police are still searching for the couple’s son, Siddhant Thottapilly, 12, who was believed to be with the rest of the family when the deadly incident occurred.

Authorities began searching for the Thottapilly family after they vanished during a road trip from Portland, Ore., to their home in Santa Clarita. The family was traveling as a storm in Northern California dumped heavy rain in the area.

The family was reported missing on April 8, when relatives said the four were supposed to visit them in San Jose.

"They were such a nice family. They were very friendly, very outgoing," a neighbor previously told KTLA. "We always saw them walking up and down the street. They would ride scooters up and down the street and the grandparents would come to town."

Monday’s discovery comes just weeks after at least five members of the Hart family died when their SUV accelerated off an ocean overlook along the Pacific Coast Highway in Northern California. Three children remain missing in the incident, though police believe they were also in the vehicle when the crash happened.

Authorities said Friday Jennifer Hart, the driver, was intoxicated when she drove off the cliff. Her wife, Sarah, and two of the six adopted children had “a significant amount” of an ingredient that can be found in Benadryl in their systems.” None of the people in the vehicle were wearing seat belts at the time.NBA Star Kyrie Irving Gives Jersey & Sneakers to Military Members

Coal Miner Sings National Anthem Before Going Underground

This is pretty painful...

Pop star Rachel Platten's performance of the national anthem before the April 14 National Women's Soccer League match between the Utah Royals and the Chicago Red Stars did not go as planned.

Platten, who's best known for her anthem "Fight Song," apparently forgot the words to "The Star-Spangled Banner" and had to start over twice before she was able to power through.

“O, say can you see, by the stars early light," Platten began, before starting over and then asking the crowd for help with the lyrics.

Thankfully, she was able to recover and finish the anthem.

Check out several angles of the painful performance below.

Mattis Jokes to Bolton, 'I Heard You're Actually the Devil Incarnate'

'Jeopardy!' Contestant Loses $3,200 for Not Saying 'Gangsta' Right

Ben Stiller, Trump Critic De Niro Reunite for 'SNL' Mueller 'Interrogation'It appears New York Mets legend Keith Hernandez is still beloved across the state -- especially by police officers patrolling the highways.

The former first baseman and current Mets broadcaster detailed Friday how much he is allowed to get away with after telling a local radio station he’s essentially permitted to speed home after work.

"To be quite honest with you, the Suffolk County police who patrol the Long Island LIE, they know my car and I've been known to go 80 all the way home, which means I get home in an hour and 10 minutes," Hernandez said on WFAN’s “Boomer and Gio.”

The drive from Citi Field in Queens to Hernandez’s home in Sag Harbor, Long Island is about 90 miles and should take about two hours to drive, the New York Daily News noted.

But, of course, he’s Keith Hernandez.

The five-time all-star was acquired by the Mets in the summer of 1983 from the St. Louis Cardinals. He batted a lifetime .296 with a .384 on-base percentage, 160 home runs and 1,071 RBI.

The WFAN hosts tried to stop Hernandez from putting his foot too far in his mouth, but it's unclear if Long Island cops will be quite so nice to Hernandez next time now that his secret's out.NFL cornerback Daryl Worley is out of a job before he ever got a chance to suit up for the Super Bowl champs.

Worley, recently traded to the Philadelphia Eagles, was charged with violation of the uniform firearms act, driving under the influence, disorderly conduct-fighting and related offenses Monday, a day after police used a Taser on him and arrested the football player after he allegedly became combative.

The football player was passed out in his car Sunday morning near the teams’ practice facility in South Philadelphia. He reportedly became combative and police deployed their Taser.

The report said Worley was "in possession of a gun" when police found him.

The Eagles released Worley following his arrest.

Worley recently joined the reigning Super Bowl champions when he was traded from the Carolina Panthers in exchange for wide receiver Torrey Smith. Worley started 25 games in his two seasons with the Panthers.

Worley played college football at West Virginia. In 2014, he pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault and was given a six-month suspended sentence after getting into an altercation with a woman outside a nightclub. Worley claimed that he was defending his girlfriend.

"It was a simple situation where it was wrong place at the wrong time. There [was] nothing malicious about the incident,” Worley told reporters at the time.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Well that was awkward.

Exes Miranda Lambert and Blake Shelton, along with Shelton's new gal Gwen Stefani, were all in attendance at Sunday night's ACM Awards.

While Lambert celebrated making history as the most decorated act in ACM history with 32 wins, her ex spent the night canoodling with his new love Stefani.

Fans were reveling in anticipation for the trio to cross paths, but they seemed to make it through the show without seeing each other.

"I want the camera on Blake and Gwen when Miranda is singing or winning an award. I am an awful person," one user said on Twitter.

Much to the fan's disappointment, Lambert, 34, and her ex never met, but there were many awkward moments between the trio during the show.

One tense moment came as Lambert thanked the crowd -- which included her ex-husband and Stefani -- as her winning song "Tin Man" was inspired by her divorce from Shelton, 41.

"Thank you guys so much for sharing my broken heart with me," the 34-year-old said as she accepted the Song of the Year award for her tune.

Us Weekly reported that Shelton and Stefani, 48, were backstage when Lambert spoke about "Tin Man." They also appeared to be missing when Lambert accepted her award for Female Vocalist of the Year.

But Stefani was front and center when her boyfriend took the stage to perform "I Lived It." Fans noticed how she sang along to every word while Shelton crooned onstage. Lambert, however, was nowhere in sight.

Gwen Stefani sings along to Blake Shelton's performance during sweet ACMs date night

The timing was poor for Lambert who recently split from her boyfriend of two years, Anderson East. The country superstar walked the red carpet sans East while Shelton and Stefani opted to skip it all together.Australian feminist Germaine Greer didn’t hold back when speaking about the future for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle.

The 79-year-old public figure spoke about the soon-to-married royal couple and had some harsh predictions about how Markle, an American divorcee, will fit into her royal role.

Harry announced on Monday that Markle will become a youth ambassador to the Commonwealth.

Greer told “60 Minutes Australia” she doesn’t think the 36-year-old former actress will enjoy being a full time royal.

Referring to Markle’s first marriage, Greer said, “I think she’ll bolt… she bolted before. She was out the door.”

She also slammed Markle’s decision to retire from acting to focus on her role as a royal.

“She will see vistas of boredom that are unbelievable.”

She added, “I think the pressure to escape from the firm is crushing.”

The feminist said Markle will always come in second to Prince Harry.

“She will be seen as an adjunct to him,” she said.

The Twitterverse did not react kindly to Greer’s assessment.

“Who gives a s--- about what Germaine Greer thinks on the royal family @60Mins. She's a senile old bat,” Twitter user Glenn A wrote.

Twitter user Gordon added, “What a spiteful woman, if she has nothing nice to say on this then keep her trap shut.”

A few users admitted Greer’s words resonated with them.

“I have to admit I've been thinking much the same. Nice girl but I don't think it will last long-term, sort of reminds me of Fergie & Andrew,” user Sarah & Jasper wrote.

Another user, Julius Perera, added Greer’s thoughts were “pretty interesting to note” and “many will agree” but no one wanted to say so.A Canadian couple may face charges after live-streaming their home-brewed sting operation Thursday against a man they called a "predator" looking to have sex with their 13-year-old daughter.

The supposed suitor, an unidentified 28-year-old man, has not been charged for showing up to the parents' home in Port Alberti, British Columbia, CTV reported.

The girl's mother reportedly invited the man to her home after intercepting sexually explicit messages she says the man had sent her daughter via Instagram.

Dramatic footage taken from the house shows the hogtied man writhing on the floor as a woman berates him. (WARNING: GRAPHIC LANGUAGE CONTENT)

"He wanted to be her first," says the person videotaping the incident, which was broadcast on Facebook Live. "We f***ing tackled him and zap strapped him and called the police."

"Shouldn't a guy be able to protect his own family in his house?" - Father of 13-year-old girl who helped hogtie 'predator'

Then, after police arrive a short time later, the woman announces on the video: "I'm arrested because we caught a predator the police refused to catch."

The teen girl's mother, who is also not being identified to protect the identity of the minor, told CTV in an interview that she had alerted the police more than a month before the episode -- but got no real response.

"They wouldn't even look at my phone. They just said to block him and forget it," she claimed. "I've been waiting for six weeks for the police to give me a name behind the Instagram account."

VIGILANTE POTHOLE TEAM TAKES ACTION IN CALIFORNIA, IRKS AUTHORITIES

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), the country's federal law enforcement body, disputed that account. According to authorities, the man in the video was in fact under investigation for child solicitation since March, after the mother brought the matter to their attention.

"The police had directed her not to take matters into her own hands, that we were investigating it," an RCMP spokesman told CTV. "She was directed not to make the meet happen."

For their part, the parents of the daughter are sticking to their guns. They are reportedly under investigation and facing potential charges for assault and unlawful restraint.

"Shouldn't a guy be able to protect his own family in his house?" the father told The San Francisco Chronicle. "This is ridiculous, and I felt that was the best way to do it."

Added the mother: "If I get charged, I still feel it was the right thing."A massive tunnel built by the Hamas terror group in northern Gaza -- the "longest and deepest" one ever found -- has been destroyed after the Israeli military infiltrated the territory, officials said.

The passage near Nahal Oz was reported to be connected to a network of other tunnels in the Gaza Strip. Isreal's military said the tunnel was "kilometers" long, but the exact length and depth was not immediately clear.

“A tunnel in which millions of dollars were invested, money that instead of relieving the strain on residents, was buried in the sand,” Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman said after the tunnel was sealed up this weekend. “Residents of Gaza, Hamas is burning your money on tunnels to nowhere. We will get our hands on all of them.”

Israel had been monitoring construction of the tunnel network for years but decided to move in after tunnel diggers began working their way up to the surface, a military spokesman told The Times of Israel.

“This was clearly a terror tunnel that connected to other tunnels in the Gaza Strip,” Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus said. “It extended into Israel and violated Israeli sovereignty.”

The tunnel went through a border section that Hamas, especially in the last two weeks, has turned “into an area of terror and fighting,” Israel’s military said.

It also was the fifth tunnel from Gaza to Israel that has been destroyed in recent months, according to Conricus, and it reportedly extended tens of yards into Israeli territory.

“The [Israeli Defense Forces] doesn’t seek an escalation. We are defending our borders,” Conricus told The Times of Israel. “We will not tolerate or allow Hamas to turn the border area into an active combat zone.”

Conricus said the tunnel was adjacent to the site of recent mass protests, which Israel says Hamas is using as a cover for attacks.

In the last two weeks, 28 Palestinians have been killed and more than 1,500 wounded by Israeli fire. The marches have been organized by Gaza's militant Hamas rulers, but large turnouts on two preceding Fridays were also driven by Gaza's dire living conditions and desperation among the territory's 2 million residents, who have been enduring a crippling border closure by Israel and Egypt since 2007, according to the Associated Press.

Conricus said Hamas began building the tunnel following the 2014 war. Israel and Hamas have fought three wars since 2008. During the most recent conflict in 2014, Israel destroyed 32 tunnels.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.As she crossed the finish line, Desiree "Desi" Linden became the first American woman to win the Boston Marathon in more than three decades.

Linden, 34, ran the more than 26 miles in the historic race Monday – through icy winds and rain – finishing with an unofficial time of 2 hours, 39 minutes and 53 seconds. She is the first American woman to win the race since 1985.

Before she won the marathon, Linden garnered praise online for appearing to slow down to wait for fellow American Shalane Flanagan as she pulled off the course for a pit stop.

Here’s a look at three things to know about Linden.

She’s a two-time Olympian

She is a two-time Olympian, finishing in 7th place in the 2016 Games.

She did not finish in the 2012 Olympics because of a stress fracture that caused her to drop out, according to Sports Illustrated.

She won silver medals in the 2010 Chicago Marathon and 2011 Boston Marathon.

Ahead of her Boston Marathon win, Linden touted her “experience,” saying she thought she’s “run the most marathons” compared to other competitors. This year was her 6th time running the Boston Marathon.

She started a coffee company

Along with her husband and fellow runners Ben and Sarah True, Linden started a coffee company.

BOSTON MARATHON’S FIRST OFFICIAL FEMALE RUNNER RELIVES BOMBINGS: ‘RUNNING MAKES YOU FEARLESS’

Called Linden & True, the company is offering free coffee during the Boston Marathon before and after Monday’s event, according to its website.

She recently took a small marathon hiatus

The summer of 2017 wasn’t spent running, but instead reading, fishing and kayaking in Michigan, she told Runner’s World magazine. She said her husband and coach were both supportive of her needing the time and space away from the sport.

It was October 2017 when she began to run every day again, according to Runner’s World, even doing a cross-country race in Boston at the end of the month.

She also participated in some short distance runs, including the Manchester Road Race in Connecticut and the USA Track & Field 5K in New York City.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The manager of a Philadelphia Starbucks who called police because two black men were allegedly trespassing in the store reportedly left the company Monday.

The manager, who wasn’t immediately identified, and Starbucks mutually agreed to part ways, a spokeswoman told the Philadelphia Inquirer.

The resignation comes as dozens of protesters packed the storefront where the two men were arrested. Protesters chanted “Starbucks coffee is anti-black.”

“This is what systemic white supremacy looks like," one protester said into a microphone.

A Starbucks regional manager told FOX29 Philadelphia the protesters could remain in the store as long as the demonstrations remained peaceful.

“No cop zone, no cop zone, they know better,” the protesters chanted. "No good cops in a racist system."

Protesters were surrounded by uniformed and plainclothes police officers.

Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson apologized again for the manager calling the police on the men who they thought were trespassing after the men were told to leave and failing to do so. Johnson hopes to meet with the men face-to-face and personally apologize, he told the Inquirer.

“In watching the video, it was painful,” he said. “It is my responsibility to ensure that we do a complete review and to make sure we understand how this could ever happen.”

Johnson said Starbucks managers will now be trained on “unconscious bias” after the incident.

Demonstrators over the weekend called for the firing of the employee who contacted the police and had the men arrested last week.

Police officers were told the men had asked to use the store’s bathroom but were detained because they hadn’t bought anything and they refused to leave.

On Sunday, Philadelphia Police Department Commissioner Richard Ross defended the officers for detaining the two men.

“The police did not just happen upon this event, they did not just walk into Starbucks to get a coffee,” he said in a Facebook video. “They were called there, for a service, and that service had to do with quelling a disturbance, a disturbance that had to do with trespassing."

Ross said the officers “followed policy” and did what they were supposed to do. He said that his department makes sure that officers receive “implicit bias training.”

"I will say, that as an African-American male, I am very aware of implicit bias," Ross said. "We are committed to fair and unbiased policing and anything less than that will not be tolerated in this department."

Johnson said in a statement Saturday the company's practices and training led to a "bad outcome," and the reason for the call that brought police into the shop was incorrect.

"Our store manager never intended for these men to be arrested and this should never have escalated as it did," said the statement. Johnson said videos of the arrest were "very hard to watch," and the company was investigating.

Police didn’t release the names of the men who were arrested. The two men were released after the district attorney’s office said there wasn’t sufficient evidence a crime had been committed.

Fox News’ Travis Fedschun and the Associated Press contributed to this report.Canadian alleged serial killer Bruce McArthur is now facing an eighth murder charge.

Toronto police Detective Sgt. Hank Idsinga said Monday the 66-year-old landscaper has been charged with first-degree murder in the death of Kirushna Kumar Kanagaratnam.

Idsinga says Kanagaratnam's remains were found at a home McArthur used as storage for his landscaping business. He said Kanagaratnam arrived from Sri Lanka in 2010 and was not on file as missing in Canada.

Investigators say he was identified after they released photographs of the man and appealed to the public for help.

Police say there are no links between Kanagaratnam and "Gay Village" of Toronto. The other victims have been linked.The Army is engineering new Hostile Fire Detection sensors for its fleet of armored combat vehicles to identify, track and target enemy small arms fire.

Even if the enemy rounds being fired are from small arms fire and not necessarily an urgent or immediate threat to heavily armored combat vehicles such as an Abrams, Stryker or Bradley, there is naturally great value in quickly finding the location of incoming enemy attacks, Army weapons developers explain.

There are a range of sensors now being explored by Army developers; infrared sensors, for example, are designed to identify the “heat” signature emerging from enemy fire and, over the years, the Army has also used focal plane array detection technology as well as acoustic sensors.

“We are collecting threat signature data and assessing sensors and algorithm performance,” Gene Klager, Deputy Director, Ground Combat Systems Division, Night Vision and Electronic Sensors Directorate, told Warrior Maven in an interview earlier this year.

Klager’s unit, which works closely with Army acquisition to identify and at times fast-track technology to war, is part of the Army’s Communications, Electronics, Research, Development and Engineering Center (CERDEC).

Click Warrior Maven for more.A riot at one of South Carolina’s most dangerous prisons left seven inmates dead and 17 others injured, a prison official said Monday.

Lee Correctional Institution was secured at around 2:55 a.m., nearly eight hours after multiple fights broke out in three housing units Sunday night, prison spokesman Jeff Taillon said. The incident started around 7:15 p.m., he said.

All prison staff and responding law enforcement officers were reported safe after the incident, the South Carolina Department of Corrections wrote in a tweet. The department added the State Law Enforcement Division was assisting prison officials in its investigation.

Emergency services from several South Carolina counties responded to the “mass casualty incident,” Lee County Fire wrote in a tweet.

Lee County Coroner Larry Logan told the Associated Press that the seven inmates who were killed during the riot died of stabbing and slashing wounds. Logan said he arrived at a chaotic scene.

"How else are you going to die in prison? They don't have guns," he said.

Details surrounding the multiple fights that had broken out were scarce, but one inmate who witnessed the incident told the Associated Press he saw bodies stacked on top of each other and that correctional officers didn’t do anything to quench the violence or check on the wounded inmates.

"I just saw three dead on the sidewalk outside of my unit. One guy is still alive and breathing, but just barely," the inmate said, adding he wasn’t sure what started the riot.

The inmate spoke on condition of anonymity out of fear of retribution from other inmates and because of the prison’s no cellphone policy.

Most of the inmates are affiliated with gangs and several attackers taunted a rival gang member who was wounded.

The inmates killed were identified as Eddie Gaskins, 32; Joshua Jenkins, 33; Corneilus McClary, 33; Michael Milledge, 44; Damonte Rivera, 24; Corey Scott, 36; and Raymond Scott, 28.

The crimes the seven inmates were charged with ranged from criminal domestic violence kidnapping and armed robbery. Rivera was in prison for the most serious offense, murder, and was serving a life sentence without parole.

State Rep. Mike Pitts, R-Laurens, warned of escalating violence in the state’s prisons.

"I just saw three dead on the sidewalk outside of my unit. One guy is still alive and breathing, but just barely." - Witness to AP

"Prisons are becoming more and more dangerous just like I said they would two years ago," Pitts told the Post and Courier. "We've concentrated the worst of the worst. At the same time, we have not been able to keep pace with the correctional officers we need. That puts a lot of stress on officers there and forces a lot of overtime on them.”

A spokesman for Gov. Henry McMaster told the AP he had “complete confidence” in Department of Corrections chief Bryan Sitrling.

Lee Correctional – located in Bishopville, 55 miles east of Columbia – has been the site of several recent violent eruptions.

In March, inmates at the prison held an officer hostage after taking control of a dorm room, The State reported. The inmates held the officer for about 25 minutes before the room was secured by law enforcement.

In February, one inmate was killed by another inmate in a fight.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.During ABC’s much-anticipated interview with former FBI Director James Comey, the ex-lawman held virtually nothing back, from his views on impeaching President Trump to gossiping about hand size. Yet curiously, Comey brushed away one issue that he clearly didn’t want to discuss: his leaking of memos to the New York Times.

“(W)hether you can leak unclassified information, I don't want to get involved in that,” he said firmly.

That won’t come as a surprise to America’s working-level spies and law enforcement officers. They can see right through Comey’s charade of “leadership” and “loyalty” because they know the immeasurable damage he has caused.

Here’s why.

When a servicemember, covert operator, or G-man takes their oath of allegiance to the nation, it’s a moment of both joy and humility. It’s a covenant signifying sacrifice, fidelity, and mission. New recruits quickly understand that they are no longer an individual – neither Republican nor Democrat, Muslim nor Christian, gay nor straight – but rather part of a collective force that stops at nothing to defend and promote America’s interests.

I certainly recall that moment in my own life. My CIA classmates and I stood in front of the CIA’s wall of stars – a slate of Alabama marble memorializing the dozens of officers who had fallen in the line of duty. It was a sober, fitting place for us to fully understand the sacrifice we would face in the years ahead.

After taking our oath, then-CIA Director George Tenet wasted no time in making clear to us the task before the nation. It was late 2001, only weeks after 9/11. We were the first class to begin our duty following the terror attacks. America was scrambling to catch up to the Al Qaeda threat.

Our cigar-chomping leader reminded us to keep humble hearts and conduct ourselves with integrity. He made clear that the operational tools that would soon be at our disposal – from a cadre of global informants to stolen emails and hacked phone calls – were an intoxicating elixir that could be abused by those of weak character.

In the days thereafter, others leaders went to great lengths to remind us of the consequences should we falter, and that we had a moral obligation to flag any officer who abused their authority. They explained that if we ever felt someone had crossed a line, there were ways to address it. Certainly we could speak with our managers. Failing that, the CIA’s Office of Inspector General. Or we could escalate it directly to the FBI.

If all of those options failed, we were given one final outlet: our elected representatives in the House and Senate.

One fellow student raised his hand. “If that doesn’t work, can we go to the press?”

Our leadership shot him a look of pure ice. “No,” one man replied with contempt. He continued that once we passed off our allegations to a Representative or Senator, it was their job – the job of the people – to decide whether we were right or wrong in our judgment of abuse. Our lifetime vow of secrecy precluded us from speaking with reporters.

This message of reporting waste, fraud, and abuse wasn’t exclusive to the CIA. Friends and colleagues in other intelligence and law enforcement agencies heard the same. Including those at the FBI. They were words spoken directly by Comey himself.

And then, on June 8, 2017, everything changed.

On that day, Comey admitted to leaking notes of his conversations with President Trump to the New York Times. He used a friend – or “cutout” – to leak the memos so that he could hide his identity.

It’s impossible to overstate what a gut punch this was for officers in the FBI and CIA. For years, we had been told, lectured, and threatened not to leak to the press. We were given clear paths to share our concerns of abuse, all of which were known and available to Comey. He could have handed his notes to the Senate or House, but he didn’t. He could have testified about his concerns, but at that point he didn’t.

Instead, Comey chose to leak. And he admitted to his treachery only after being compelled to testify.

Friends I spoke with at the Bureau and Agency shared my anger and disgust. Our brother in arms – the most senior leader in the fights against corruption, terrorism, and espionage – had violated his lifetime oath. He had betrayed not just the American people but his fellow officers as well.

And no matter his excuses, he also broke every FBI rule regarding contact with the press and release of government information.

Many of us also saw a direct assault on the spirit – if not the letter – of the very laws he swore to uphold.

But the most worrying of consequences was his demonstration to partisan spies and G-men that they too could successfully leak. How? Legal analysis explained that the disgraced leader followed a series of clear steps to avoid prosecution. They included:

1. Resign or be terminated from your position. Inspectors General have little jurisdiction over a former employee.

2. Ensure that any leaked information can be argued as an unclassified “personal reflection” written by “a private citizen” to “memorialize” past events.

3. Never share leaked information in written form. Oral disclosures are not subject to the FBI or CIA’s prepublication requirements.

4. Ensure there’s no payment for the leak itself. Monetization can come later when writing a book or delivering paid speeches about the leak personal reflections.

It doesn’t take a spy or special agent to understand the ramifications of Comey’s plotting. If a senior leader can get away with violating his or her oath, anyone can. And unquestionably, someone else will, spurred on by their personal agenda.

The result? A weakened America, hobbled by the selfish pursuits of officers that choose to disregard their allegiance as it suits their interests.

Me first, country second.

It’s an outcome that appeared lost on Comey during his interview Sunday night. After all, he had the audacity to title his book, “A Higher Loyalty.” It’s as though he thinks he still has some lingering respect from a grateful nation or a brotherhood of public servants. He does not. His loyalty is no longer to his country or its security, no matter his charade of claims.

Comey has one loyalty and one only: to himself.My apologies to J. Edgar Hoover. Trying to illustrate the arrogance and treachery of James Comey, I dubbed him J. Edgar Comey and accused him of learning the art of dirty tricks from the FBI’s legendary director.

I was wrong. Hoover, for all his huge flaws, took most of the dirt he collected to the grave. Comey is emptying his closet just to make a buck.

Even worse, we now know that Comey led an FBI that was corrupted to the core by politics and self-dealing.

Comey’s memoir is a going-out-of- business sale where all the remaining merchandise is tawdry. Most striking is that he offers no proof for his cascade of claims against both President Trump and former Attorney General Loretta Lynch.

Instead, he relies on subjective assertions and opinions rather than facts or evidence. His feelings about the base motives of other people, contrasted with his own high-mindedness, are the driving force of his book, as detailed by reviews and news reports.

To continue reading Michael Goodwin on The New York Post click here.Between World War I and World War II, U.S. military planners studied how warfare might change from the trenches to the high seas and to the skies.

Thank goodness. Although the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor surprised the nation, it did not take long for the thinking that was done years earlier to be brought to bear. We were ready with a strategy and able to build submarines, aircraft carriers and bombers to defeat very capable German and Japanese forces on land, sea and in the air.

Today, our objective is deterrence, but our need to study and anticipate change in the nature of warfare is as urgent as it was in the interwar period. That’s where we are now with space, a domain that, until recently, was a benign frontier defined by satellites and a future of daring exploration.

America is the best in the world at space, and our adversaries know it. They are developing and testing capabilities to deny us the use of space in crisis or war.

The Air Force is responsible for 90 percent of America’s military space assets and we see clearly where American interests are threatened. We are dramatically increasing our space budget this year and we are developing concepts and capabilities to deter and defeat any adversary who threatens our ability to freely operate in space.

While most Americans use space every day, few are conscious of it. It’s seamlessly woven into our lives. Air Force-operated GPS satellites give you the blue dot on your phone and provide the timing for banking, communications, and the stock exchange. One recent study showed that the Global Positioning System’s value to the U.S. economy was about $70 billion per year.

We must continue to work with our allies to strengthen our collective self-defense in space, just as we have on Earth. And we must continue to study how our enemies might exploit vulnerabilities and how we will defeat them, just as military planners did before World War II.

In the coming years, our military will undertake a number of steps to ensure our vital space capabilities are resilient so that our potential adversaries are deterred from attacking us. These steps include reducing the time to develop and to launch critical new satellites; creating warfighting tactics for our troops to train against satellite-jamming, laser attacks and other threats; and fielding defendable space systems and the capability to protect them.

The stakes are high and America’s leadership is aligned. Make no mistake, Russia and China are developing anti-satellite capabilities that could become operational in the next few years. Our new National Defense Strategy correctly recognizes the reemergence of great power competition with China and Russia as the principal priority for the Defense Department.

We must continue to work with our allies to strengthen our collective self-defense in space, just as we have on Earth. And we must continue to study how our enemies might exploit vulnerabilities and how we will defeat them, just as military planners did before World War II.

There is much work to be done to ensure space continues to be open and accessible to the world and that our systems are secure from attack. It is an urgent national priority.President Trump has sent a message that his “red line” will not be crossed. It was important to degrade Syria’s chemical weapons capability and that’s what we did.

In addition, President Trump’s actions were not lost on Kim Jong Un and I believe this also weighed into the president’s calculus. The North Korea nuclear threat is the greatest threat facing the United States today. American strength and leadership has brought Kim Jong Un to the table to discuss denuclearization. Kim Jong Un was watching how we would respond to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s latest chemical attack on his own people, and he saw that with this president, “red lines” will not be crossed.

Another complicating factor was Iran. Iran has been a “great enabler” of the North Korean nuclear threat, but they are also in Syria. This also had to weigh in on the president’s decision making process.

The big question now is “What is the next step?” It is important that the United States execute a “3 Pronged Strategy” simultaneously designed to drive a wedge between Russia, Assad, and Iran. Let’s keep them busy and off balance, focusing on their own problems, so they have less time for mischief and we can focus on our greatest national security challenge—North Korea.

Why has Russia been AWOL for the past five years on the 2013 UN Security Council Agreement to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons program and what happened to the inspections and required monthly reports?

Here’s a framework of how it could look:

Assad—Support an international campaign to go after him as a war criminal. Yes, I understand the problem of having the UN Security Council (because of a Russian veto) referring this to the International Criminal Court at The Hague. However, look at what’s going on in Sweden and Germany. Swedish and German prosecutors have been in the forefront of prosecuting Syria war crimes. And the Swiss have begun legal proceedings against Rifaat al-Assad, former Syrian Vice President and Bashar al-Assad’s uncle. Further, Carla del Ponte, a former member of the UN Commission of Inquiry on Syria, has said the evidence is there to convict Bashar al-Assad of war crimes. Let’s build on all of this.

Russia—Here, let’s focus on the 2013 UN Security Council Agreement to destroy Syria’s chemical weapons program. Why has Russia been AWOL for the past five years and what happened to the inspections and required monthly reports? And why did Russia veto the continuation of the Joint Investigative Mechanism which was investigating chemical weapons use in Syria?

Iran—Tension has been growing with a number of Arab states who have had it with Iran. In the fall of 2016, some 11 Arab nations complained to the United Nations that Iran was a state sponsor of terrorism. This was followed up in late 2017 with several Arab nations saying they would bring specifics to the UN Security Council. Let’s encourage these Arab nations to have a sustained plan to keep Iran busy having to deal with its own problems.

Anyone who looks at the history of Syria realizes that the phrase “constant turmoil” best describes it. It is a quagmire and the U.S. needs to take steps now so that our involvement there doesn’t escalate and the situation doesn’t get out of control.

President Trump’s action in degrading Syria’s chemical weapons capability was the right one and it showed both Assad and Kim Jong Un that with him, “red lines” won’t be crossed. Implementing a “3 Pronged Strategy” designed to drive a wedge between Russia, Assad and Iran and force them each have to focus on their own problems will help ensure that American involvement in Syria doesn’t escalate and we can focus on the greatest national security threat to America today—North Korea.If you’re flying over Tennessee this week, don’t be surprised to see a giant burger sitting in a field near Nashville.

And if you’re wondering why there's a burger staring back at you, remember there’s no length too great to stage a marketing campaign.

IN-N-OUT SUING OVER 'DOWN N' OUT' RESTAURANT CHAIN

Last week, national burger chain Hardee’s revealed their newest advertisement, which, instead of being posted on a billboard, has been plastered across a field — kind of like a crop circle — near the Grand Ole Opry.

Due to its size, one can only view the agrarian masterpiece from up high, where the word "Hardee's" is clearly visible underneath the burger.

Designed by Stan Herd, a Kansas-based professional crop circle artist, the burger stretches across a field on Pennington Bend Road in the Opryland area, where it will remain for at least a week. Hardee’s commissioned Herd’s services to promote their new “Tastes Like America” campaign “targeting America’s heartland,” according to Tennessean.

In an interview with The Hype Magazine, Jeff Jenkins, chief marketing officer of CKE Restaurants — Hardee’s parent company — said the restaurant wanted to talk to customers in America’s Heartland “with something different, something that wouldn’t blend in, and something we think fits our brand — a crop burger.”

Jenkins remarked that the food chain “worked with a local farmer, and renowned earthworks artist Stan Herd, to throw our food, and our customers, a down-home salute.”

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Aside from the publicity, the fast food chain is also hoping to earn some good will with its latest marketing stunt. One lucky fan who posts a photo of the burger with the hashtag #cropburger will reportedly win a cooler full of Hardee’s branded items, the Tennessean reports.

So, again, if you’re flying to Nashville this week, don't be surprised to see a burger blanketing the ground beneath you — and try to grab a window seat to secure yourself an award-winning shot.Passengers on a Southwest Airlines flight from Fort Lauderdale, Fla. to New Orleans Saturday prepared for the worst as the plane attempted to land in a storm.

The experience was so scary, people were screaming, crying and preparing to die as the pilot flew the plane through severe thunder and lightning, WWL-TV reports.

DOG ARRESTED FOR BEING A BAD BOY, PICKING FIGHTS WITH DEER

“We came through the clouds and the plane was just tilting back and forth. It was going all over the place,” passenger Lauren Bale, who works for WWL-TV, said of the harrowing experience.

“It felt like I was about to lift off. I felt like I was done. I felt like I was about to see baby Jesus and Papa God,” another passenger, Marie Wary, told the station.

After a failed attempt to land at its destination, the plane rerouted to Panama City, Fla. to wait out the storm. “You couldn’t see anything. No visibility,” passenger Sharon Bikoundou told WWL-TV of one attempted landing. “Right as he was about to land he pulled back up.”

The plane eventually arrived safely in New Orleans about four hours behind schedule, but some passengers questioned why the plane ever attempted the scary landing in the first place.

Bale posted several updates on Twitter, saying it was the “most terrifying experience” of her life. “The flight attendants were yelling over the speakers to fasten seat belts as tightly as possible and I was texting my family goodbye. I just don't understand why @SouthwestAir put everyone in that situation,” Bale tweeted.

“This was all 100 [percent] preventable but @SouthwestAir took a huge risk and I honestly feel lucky to be alive,” she wrote after the plane had landed in Panama City.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

A spokesperson for Southwest Airlines released the following statement to Fox News: “Our top focus is Safety. Flight 3461 from Fort Lauderdale to New Orleans arrived about four hours behind schedule after persistent thunderstorms over New Orleans forced prolonged holding near New Orleans awaiting clearance from air traffic controllers followed by a refueling stop in Panama City before the completion of the journey. The Safety of our Customers and Employees as well as the safe operation of every flight is our highest priority.”The verdict is in on Carrie Underwood's "new" face.

Fans have been itching to catch a glimpse of Underwood's face after the singer received 40-50 stitches from a nasty fall in November. While the singer tweeted a blurry selfie before the show, she gave fans a full three minutes to examine if anything had changed about her features like she had hinted.

Underwood had said the “freak random accident” left her “not quite looking the same" but according to fans who watched the show, no visible scars or marks could be seen on the 35-year-old’s face.

"Am I the only one that didn’t notice a change in Carrie Underwood’s face?" one fan tweeted.

"I see absolutely nothing wrong with Carrie Underwood's face. Gorgeous!" said another.

The singer has been teasing her return to the spotlight since the start of the month. Underwood showed off her face in the first uncovered Instagram photo on April 4. The black and white picture only revealed half of her face, though she has kept most of her features below her nose under wraps since November.

She provided her fans an update last week, saying her wrist is almost back to normal and her face “has been healing pretty nicely” after receiving nearly 50 stitches from the fall.

“First off, physically, I’m doing pretty darn good these days! My wrist is almost back to normal, about 90% there…and the docs say that last 10% will come in time. And my face has been healing pretty nicely as well,” Underwood wrote. “I definitely feel more like myself than I have in a while.”

Underwood said the healing process has made her slow down — which she dubbed “forced relaxation” — and spend more time with her husband, Mike Fisher, and son, Isaiah. She called it a silver lining to the fall.

“Sometimes I think things happen in order to make us slow down. It also means I’ve been home to support my favorite hockey player coming out of retirement!” Underwood said, referring to Fisher’s return to the Nashville Predators.

Fox News' Katherine Lam contributed to this report.R. Lee Ermey, a former Marine Corps drill instructor known to millions of moviegoers as the sadistic Gunnery Sergeant Hartman in Stanley Kubrick's "Full Metal Jacket," died Sunday morning, according to his longtime manager. He was 74.

In a statement posted on Twitter, Bill Rogin said Ermey had died due to complications from pneumonia.

"He will be greatly missed by all of us," Rogin wrote. "Semper Fi, Gunny. Godspeed."

A Kansas native, Ermey enlisted in the Marine Corps in 1961 at age 17. He served for 11 years, including 14 months in Vietnam, before he was discharged in 1972. He served as a technical adviser in Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 Vietnam War epic, "Apocalypse Now," in which he also had a small role as a helicopter pilot.

But Ermey didn't get his big break until eight years later, in Kubrick's own take on Vietnam. He was originally supposed to be a technical adviser, but Kubrick offered him the role of Gunnery Sergeant Hartman after seeing a demo tape of Ermey railing at extras while tennis balls flew at him.

In his role as a drill instructor breaking in new Marines at boot camp on Parris Island, S.C., Ermey roared his way into film history by berating his unfortunate charges.

WARNING: VIDEO CONTAINS PROFANITY

"Here you are all equally worthless," Ermey/Hartman says by way of introduction. "And my orders are to weed out all non-hackers who do not pack the gear to serve in my beloved Corps. Do you maggots understand that?"

The main target of Ermey's wrath is the unfortunate, overweight Private Pyle, played by Vincent D'Onofrio.

"Were you born a fat, slimy, scumbag puke piece of s---," Private Pyle, or did you have to work on it?" the gunnery sergeant asks in one scene.

But having turned Private Pyle into a killing machine, Hartman is helpless when his own creation turns on him, gunning him down the night after boot camp graduation after Hartman asks: "What is your major malfunction, numbnuts?"

Kubrick told Rolling Stone that 50 percent of Ermey's dialogue in the film was his own.

"In the course of hiring the marine recruits, we interviewed hundreds of guys. We lined them all up and did an improvisation of the first meeting with the drill instructor. They didn't know what he was going to say, and we could see how they reacted. Lee came up with, I don't know, 150 pages of insults," Kubrick said.

D'Onofrio and "Full Metal Jacket" co-star Matthew Modine tweeted their condolences late Sunday, with Modine quoting the poet Dylan Thomas.

"Full Metal Jacket" earned Ermey a Golden Globe nomination, as well as a career playing authority figures -- from Mayor Tilman in 1988's "Mississippi Burning" to little green army man Sarge in the more family-friendly "Toy Story."

In all, Ermey racked up more than 60 credits in television and film, including apperances in "Se7en," "Prefontaine," and "Toy Soldiers." He also hosted the History Channel series "Mail Call" and "Lock N' Load with R. Lee Ermey."

An outspoken conservative, Ermey spoke to Fox News in 2016 about being "blackballed" from Hollywood over his political views.

"I've had a very fruitful career. I've done over 70 feature films," he said. "I've done over 200 episodes of [Outdoor Channel series 'GunnyTime']... and then [Hollywood] found out that I'm a conservative."

Actually, he corrected, "I'm an Independent, but I said something bad about the president. I had something unsavory to say about the president's administration, and even though I did vote for him the first time around, I was blackballed."

Ermey, who was an NRA board member, said at the time that his association with the organization and his disapproval of President Obama cost him acting jobs.

"Do you realize I have not done a movie in five to six years? Why? Because I was totally blackballed by the ... liberals in Hollywood," he alleged. "They can destroy you. They're hateful people [who] don't just not like you, they want to take away your livelihood ... that's why I live up in the desert on a dirt road ... I don't have to put up with their crap."

"He will be greatly missed by all of us," Rogin told The Associated Press Sunday. "It is a terrible loss that nobody was prepared for."

Rogin says that while his characters were often hard and principled, the real Ermey was a family man and a kind and gentle soul who supported the men and women who serve.

Fox News' Sasha Savitsky and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Sam Hunt won Best Single of the Year at Sunday night's ACM Awards, but the singer wasn't there to accept the coveted trophy.

Presenters Nancy O'Dell and Dustin Lynch accepted the award on Hunt's behalf for his song "Body Like A Back Road."

"Congratulations Sam, where are you?" O'Dell said as the crowd audibly booed.

Hunt has yet to comment on the honor but he did warn fans he may be a no-show in an interview leading up to the ACMs.

Hunt told 97.1's Dave O'Brien his best friend and tour manager is getting married the day before ACMs.

"He's getting married so I'm juggling a few things this weekend," Hunt explained. "So I'm not 100 percent sure that I'm going to be able to make it out for all of the festivities because he's getting married down in Georgia the day before and I'm in the wedding...we're kind of lifers."

Fellow artist and nominee Chris Stapleton was also missing from the ACMs and he also had a pretty good excuse -- host Reba announced that his wife Morgane gave birth to twin boys on Sunday.

Despite the excuse, Hunt got grilled on Twitter by viewers.

"Sam hunt finally wins and a no show. Must in force must be present to win," one user wrote.

Another chimed in, "What could Sam Hunt possibly be doing that he was too busy to show up."

A rep for the singer did not immediately return Fox News' request for comment.Reba brought the crowd at the 2018 ACM Awards to their feet when she donned her infamous red dress from 25 years ago.

The ACM host made headlines in 1993 for the revealing red dress she wore to the CMA Awards that year. While the red hot number may not seem risqué today in a world of leotards and foam fingers, Reba's infamous dress was quite shocking in the early '90s.

"I got more press off that dress than if I’d won Entertainer of the Year,"she said in an interview at the time.

""THE WORLD HAS BEEN SHOOK REBA MCENTIRE IS WEARING THE INFAMOUS RED DRESS FROM 1993 HOLY SHOOT," one fan wrote on Twitter.

Another said, "! Wait is that the famous red dress??!"

McEntire was joined onstage by Kelly Clarkson as part of the ACM's efforts to honor moments in country music from 25-years-ago.

The dress has been on display at the Country Music Hall of Fame but Reba must have called in some favors as she confirmed the dress she wore Sunday night was the red dress.

"It fit, [I'm] really pleased," McEntire told ET.Some New Yorkers are being hit with thousands of dollars in fines for crossing a bridge that should be free.

Residents of Rockaway, Queens, are supposed to get a free pass on the Cross Bay Bridge that connects the peninsula they live on to the rest of the city, but issues with a new cashless toll system have led to one family racking up a $15,000 bill in just six weeks.

That’s how much Christina Calvache told The New York Post that the Metropolitan Transit Authority said she and her husband owed. The issue is that the unmanned E-ZPass system at the crossing that’s programmed to charge locals a $1.41 toll and then immediately issue a rebate in that amount, but if an account balance is lower than $1.41 they’re instead charged the standard toll of $4.25 and fined $100.

Calvache said that the old toll booth had a sign that warned drivers when they’re account was running low, but the new one doesn’t, and the MTA lets the charges add up for weeks before sending out the notices. She said she had to pay $500 just to not lose her E-ZPass and that the MTA is taking her to collections for more. Finbar Devine, another resident in the same situation, told the post she unknowingly racked up an $11,000 bill.

They both want the system updated, but the MTA says drivers have a responsibility to keep their accounts up to date.

“Travelling under a tolling gantry with an underfunded E-ZPass account is a violation and can result in fees being assessed, this includes those Rockaway residents enrolled in the rebate program,” MTA spokesman Christopher McKniff told The Post.

New York State Assemblywoman Stacey Pheffer Amato, who represents the affected district, has introduced a bill that would establish a six month amnesty for these types of toll violations while a new system is put in place that limits the fines to three times the original unpaid toll.Cheating is as old as time itself, if the discovery of a mysterious 600-year-old dodgy dice is anything to go by.

The highly unusual wooden dice was found during excavations in the Norwegian city of Bergen. Featuring “two fives” and “two fours,” archaeologists believe that the dice was used to cheat in games.

Experts from the Norwegian Institute for Cultural Heritage Research (NIKU) discovered the dice close to a wooden street that dates back to the 1400s in Vågsbunnen, a medieval district of Bergen.

VIKING TREASURES DISCOVERED: 'THOR'S HAMMER' AMONG SILVER HAUL FOUND ON BALTIC ISLAND

Per Christian Underhaug, project manager for the excavations in Bergen, says that, while the dice may have been lost by a medieval gambler, it is also possible that someone wanted to get rid of it. There were several inns and pubs in Vågsbunnen that likely hosted gambling, according to Underhaug.

In a blog post, archaeologist Ingrid Rekkavik explained that medieval authorities in Bergen attempted to clamp down on gambling. A 1276 City Act gave the King's Ombudsmen power to confiscate money on gambling tables and fine gamblers half a mark, equivalent to about 107 grams of silver. “However, there is no reason to believe that gambling was not widespread,” she added.

The dice, she explained, may have been used in a game called passe-dix that dates back to ancient times. The object of the game, which is played with three dice, is to throw at least 10. The first player to get less than 10 loses.

VIKING SWORD DISCOVERY: HUNTER FINDS 1,100-YEAR-OLD WEAPON ON NORWEGIAN MOUNTAIN

“It’s exciting to imagine this dice’s last game – was the cheater revealed?” wrote Rekkavik. “What happened to the dice? Was it perhaps thrown away by the nervous cheater eager to get rid of evidence? Or was it angrily thrown by an opponent, to where it ended up being found over 600 years later?”

The dice is just the latest fascinating archaeological find in Scandinavia. Last year, for example, an incredibly well-preserved Viking sword was found by a reindeer hunter on a remote mountain in Southern Norway. In 2016 archaeologists in Trondheim, Norway, unearthed the church where Viking King Olaf Haraldsson was first enshrined as a saint.

Also, in 2016, a tiny Viking crucifix was found in Denmark.

Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersThere’s nothing quite like a juicy cut of beef to celebrate a birthday, holiday or the end of a long week, and a pepper-crusted ribeye or tender flank steak does just the trick. But if you’re among the home cooks who are hesitant to make steak, have no fear. Many folks who feel quite comfortable in the kitchen otherwise are guilty of cooking dry, tough meat.

Read on to avoid the most common mistakes, and get ready to cook the perfect steak every time.

Mistake 1: Not using enough seasoning

You may be afraid of making steak too salty or overpowering it with spices, but trust us: Caution doesn’t pay when it comes to seasoning. Since you can’t season the steak’s interior, playing it too safe will deprive you of rich flavors and a bold crust.

What to do instead: Season the meat heartily on both sides about 35 to 40 minutes before cooking. For inspiration, check out our favorite DIY spice blends.

Mistake 2: Cooking steak cold

When it comes to steak, it can be hard to be patient, but you never want to pull steak straight from the fridge to throw on the grill. Plan ahead, giving the meat time to reach room temperature. A cold steak will cook unevenly, potentially causing the outside to burn while the inside remains undercooked.

What to do instead: Depending on the cut, allow a half-hour to two hours for the meat to sit on the counter.

Mistake 3: Getting the wrong cut

Choosing a steak isn’t as easy as grabbing it from the cooler and heading to the checkout line. There are plenty of varieties, and not all of them should be cooked the same way. For instance, T-bones thrive on the grill, but a boneless ribeye does best in a frying pan (thanks to the fat running through it). Treating all steaks the same can deprive you of the best possible flavor.

What to do instead: Learn your cuts and preferred cooking style. If you forget which cut you like, remember that the higher the price point, the more likely it’s meant to be fried. (Any good butcher will be happy to provide answers and advice.) Want to get more creative with your cut of choice? Grill up our favorite steak recipes.

Mistake 4: Choosing a lean cut

There’s a time and place for lean cuts, but steak night isn’t one of them. Lean cuts tend to be tough and dry, since fat is what provides most of the flavor.

What to do instead: Pick out a steak with a healthy amount of marbling (the fat which shows up as white flecks and lines). It may be more expensive, but the tenderness and juiciness will be well worth it.

Mistake 5: Turning the steak only once

It’s a common misconception that the best way to keep a steak tender and juicy is to flip it once. While you may get photo-worthy grill marks, your steak won’t be any more delicious. In fact, with this method, you may be drying out the steak.

What to do instead: Get into the habit of turning your steak multiple times as it cooks, especially when the heat is high. Extra flips allow the steak to cook more quickly (up to 30 percent faster than the one-flip method.) This is what will give you a juicier steak. You’ll also find that this method helps the meat cook evenly, without much curling along the edges.

Bonus Test Kitchen tip: It’s essential to use tongs instead of a fork to flip your meat.

For five more mistakes you (might) make when grilling steak, continue reading the original article at Taste of Home.Kylie Jenner and more young stars turned up at Coachella over the weekend, showing up in skin-baring looks at the star-studded music festival.

Kylie Jenner, who recently gave birth to daughter Stormi, attended two Coachella parties and showed some skin as well as some wild hairdos. The reality star showed off blue hair and bright pink locks over the weekend.

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Apr 15, 2018 at 1:48pm PDT

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Apr 14, 2018 at 2:33pm PDT

Meanwhile, Bella Hadid posted an Instagram snap from Coachella, as did Bella Thorne.

A post shared by 🦋 (@bellahadid) on Apr 14, 2018 at 2:51pm PDT

Boo thang on a Sunday 😍 A post shared by BELLA (@bellathorne) on Apr 15, 2018 at 11:59am PDT

Iggy Azalea showed off her summer style at the festival and Rihanna showed a lot of skin in a see-through outfit.

A post shared by badgalriri (@badgalriri) on Apr 15, 2018 at 12:52pm PDT

Kylie’s older sister Kendall Jenner also partied with friends at Coachella.

💚 @revolve #REVOLVEfestival #REVOLVEambassador A post shared by Kendall (@kendalljenner) on Apr 14, 2018 at 5:36pm PDT

Hailey Baldwin, the 21-year-old daughter of Stephen Baldwin, was spotted in a bra top over the weekend.

💚 A post shared by Hailey Baldwin (@haileybaldwin) on Apr 14, 2018 at 11:29am PDT

Victoria's Secret model Romee Strijd turned up in all Victoria's Secret branded gear.

Perhaps the biggest news at the music festival came when Beyonce took the stage and performed with Destiny’s Child in a surprise reunion. Beyonce performed at two-hour set of her hits in Indio, Calif., where the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival is held each year. The superstar was due to perform last year but had to postpone because she was pregnant with her twins, Sir and Rumi.

Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams also joined her as they sang their smash "Say My Name," and husband Jay-Z also came out for a collaboration.

Coachella will continue next weekend with more all-star performance. Beyonce will return next weekend, as will fellow headliners The Weeknd and Eminem. Other big names at the festival include Cardi B, David Byrne and Haim.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A woman is reportedly accusing R&B singer R. Kelly of giving her an STD during their eight-month relationship, a charge that the singer “categorically denies.”

The Washington Post reported that the woman claims that she had been in a relationship with the singer from last June to February. She alleges that she became infected sometime in December, the paper reported.

Lee Merritt, the woman’s attorney, told the paper that his client—who was 19 when the relationship started—was furnished alcohol and illegal drugs during their relationship and was unlawfully restrained.

“These offenses occurred while our client was being groomed to join Kelly’s sex cult,” Merritt said. Merritt claims that Kelly “gradually introduced the cult to our client over the course of their relationship, culminating with an explanation that she would have to sign a contract and offer collateral information about herself and her family for Kelly’s protection.”

A representative for Kelly told the paper that his client "categorically denies all claims and allegations."

Kelly’s former girlfriend, Kitti Jones, told the BBC for a documentary titled “R. Kelly: Sex, Girls and Videotapes” that the singer sexually abused her while they dated from 2011 to 2013 beginning when she was 27 and he was 44.

She claimed Kelly groomed her and took her to his “sex dungeon” where he forced himself on her. She also claimed Kelly forced her to have sex with him and others. She claimed she met a girl Kelly allegedly bragged he groomed since she was 14 years old.

“I was introduced to one of the girls that he told me he ‘trained’ since she was 14, those were his words. I saw that she was dressed like me, that she was saying the things I’d say and her mannerisms were like mine. That’s when it clicked in my head that he had been grooming me to become one of his pets. He calls them his pets,” Jones said.

Jones claimed the singer forced the woman, who was not identified, to “crawl on the floor towards me and perform oral sex on me, and he said, ‘This is my f---ing pet, I trained her. She’s going to teach you how to be with me.’”

Jones has spoken out about Kelly before. She has told her story to BuzzFeed and Rolling Stone alleging sexual and physical abuse from Kelly.

The controversial singer has been accused of sexual abuse previously and a few women have come forward alleging the singer was holding several women in a “cult.” Kelly was also arrested in 2003 on child pornography charges. He was acquitted of the charges in 2008.Little Big Town's outfit choices at the ACM Awards left fans feeling confused.

The celebrated country group donned unique getups during their tribute to Elton John at Sunday night's award show in Las Vegas.

While Jimi Westbrook (left) and Philip Sweet (right) chose sparkly suits, it was the womens' looks that had Twitter lit up.

"Why is there a vulture standing next to a leprechaun?" one user tweeted.

Another added that Karen Fairchild (second from right) looked like Cruella de Vil.

Little Big Town performed Elton John's "Rocket Man."It’s all come down to this on AMC’s “The Walking Dead” Season 8. With the survivors headed right into Negan’s trap, the struggle to survive and dominate the new world came to a head as the war drew to a close.

The episode opens with spirits very high at the Hilltop as they believe they’re about to catch Negan and the Saviors by surprise. However, it was revealed at the end of last week’s episode that Negan planted the information as a false flag in order to lead Rick and the rest of the survivors into a trap.

Together, the intrepid heroes depart leaving most of the Hilltop behind.

Meanwhile, back at the Sanctuary, Negan is getting his men ready for the end of this conflict as well. He approaches Dwight, who is beaten and bloodied after being found out as a traitor, to dress him down with the fact that he was once a respected member of the community there.

“Now… you don’t have a damn thing,” he says.

Eugene comes in and explains that he personally quality control checked all the ammunition he made the Saviors for this big finish. He even requested to be along for the ride to help with the tactics and ensure everything goes quick and smooth. He, Negan and Gabriel share a ride together after the leader tells the priest he has some confessing to do.

Negan tells Gabriel that he’s set up a roadblock for Rick to kill some of the Saviors as a way to sell his evil plan. Rick finds a new map and figures out that a trap was set, but that’s all still going according to Negan’s plan, meaning the heroes are in for a world of hurt. Realizing that Negan has the upper hand, Father Gabriel makes a half-hearted attempt at escape by jumping out of the car.

Eugene of all people catches up with the blind priest as he was grappling with a walker. He tells Gabriel that his faith left him right at the time when he’ll need it most. Although Gabriel begs him to allow him to warn the others, Eugene keeps him at gunpoint until Negan catches up.

Finally, Negan launches his plan. Just when Rick and the gang are in an open field, he announces his presence on a loudspeaker. He explains that Eugene and Dwight were the people who trapped them and that they’ll all be executed on his mark -- that mark being the sound of Negan putting a bullet through Gabriel’s head.

Rick and company realize they’re about to die as Saviors emerge from the hills in all directions. However, when Negan finishes his countdown, Eugene proves once again that he’s the smartest man left in the world.

He rigged all the bullets to backfire, killing multiple Saviors as they tried to murder his friends. It seems that Rosita and Daryl’s attempted kidnapping had an impact on him after all.

With most of his men dead and a nasty bit of gun shrapnel in his right hand, Negan barely escapes as Dwight and Gabriel try to take him down. Realizing that the tide has shifted in their favor, Rick orders his people to finish off the Saviors while he personally runs down Negan. He pins him down with pistol fire behind a tree with decorative stained glass hanging from it and closes the distance to take the big man on one-on-one.

Sadly, even with a broken hand, Negan is more than a match for Rick, injuring him with his trusty bat Lucille. Just when Negan is about to deal a killing blow, Rick begs him to give him ten seconds to explain how the new world will be, for Carl. Negan steadies himself and listens as Rick explains that Carl wanted them to live in peace, which they can do now that Negan’s army is crippled.

As Negan’s eye tear, he slowly starts to lower his bat, as soon as he does, Rick quickly cuts his throat with a piece of glass.

“Look what you did,” Negan says through blood. “Carl didn’t know a damn thing.”

By this time, the survivors and their new Savior prisoners gathered around to watch as Rick ordered their doctor to save Negan’s life. Upon hearing this, Maggie has to be restrained as she screams that Negan has to die in order to make things right for the death of Glenn. She’s hysterical and demands his blood, but Rick knows he needs to go a different way.

In a powerful speech, he tells the prisoners to put their hands down and that he’ll allow them to go home so that the world can continue as it should, with the living fighting the dead, not each other.

“Negan is alive… But his way of doing things is over. Anyone who can’t live with that will pay the price. I promise you that. Any person here who would live in peace and fairness, who would find common ground… this world is yours, by right.”

Just like that, the war is over, and the world is on the mend. The episode cuts to Tara and Rosita bringing glass to help repair the windows of the Sanctuary, meeting with Negan’s wives to help repair the place. Dwight is brought out to the middle of the woods by Daryl, assuming his execution has finally come. Daryl, however, hands him keys to a car and tells him to go find his wife, and that if he ever showed his burnt face again, he’d be a dead man.

In a more ominous denouement to the conflict, Maggie meets with Jesus in a dark room of the Hilltop to explain that she’s not on board with what Rick did in leaving Negan alive.

“So we’re going to bide our time, wait for our moment… and then we’re going to show him,” Maggie says.

Daryl, emerging from the shadows, agrees.

The episode ends with Negan waking up inside Alexandria. Rick and Michonne tell him that he’s going to be a living example of what they’re rebuilding. A sign to everyone that this is a civilization, and if you try to make it the kind of world Negan did with his “saving,” you get locked away for the rest of your life. With the war finally over, Rick sets himself and the rest of the survivors on a path to rebirth. The question now becomes whether it will last.next

prev next

prev

A pregnant woman who found a pea-sized lump on her face two days before giving birth has just months to live, after being diagnosed with inoperable cancer.

Teacher Kate Geraghty, 34, noticed swelling under her left ear when she went into labor at the hospital.

Doctors initially reassured Geraghty that the lump was likely a raised gland caused by gestational diabetes, which she had suffered from throughout her pregnancy.

She had an induced C-section on December 18 last year at Leicester Royal Infirmary and gave birth to 8-lbs., 10-oz. daughter Ivy and went home days later.

But two weeks later, she and partner Paul Dhillon, 35, of Leicester, were alarmed after the lump had a doubled in size, and urgently rushed back to the doctors.

After having two weeks of blood tests, X-rays, MRI and CT scans, Geraghty was diagnosed with high grade metastatic Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma - a rare cancer of the glands.

She underwent five hours of surgery at Glenfield Hospital in Leicester, where the lump and 40 cancerous lymph nodes were removed.

TODDLER WHO BEAT CANCER TWICE HEADS HOME AFTER 8-MONTH HOSPITAL STAY

But tragically, because the tumor was so large, it was impossible to remove all the cancerous cells.

Geraghty, a keen kick boxer, was referred to University Hospital Coventry for radiotherapy, but on April 5 doctors discovered two more lumps.

She and Dhillon, also a teacher, were given the devastating news that the cancer had spread, rendering it inoperable, and meaning Geraghty has just months to live.

The new mom’s family launched an appeal to raise funds to pay for her to go to Germany for immmunotherapy treatment to give her a few more precious months with Ivy.

“After the incredible high of becoming parents to our incredible daughter Ivy, we have received such devastating news," Geraghty said. "The whole of Ivy’s short life has been filled with my frequent hospital visits, tests and surgery – not to mention the constant fear and uncertainty whilst also trying to bond with our new baby."

“I want to try anything possible to give me more time with Paul, Ivy and all of my loved ones," she said. "We feel humbled by everyone’s reaction and can’t thank people enough for their support. We are absolutely desperate to raise at least £100,000 as quickly as possible, potentially to travel abroad and begin the immunotherapy treatment."

CHILI GROWER DEFENDS WORLD'S HOTTEST PEPPER AFTER MAN WHO ATE ONE WAS HOSPITALIZED

"Every donation will help to give us a chance for extra time together as a family and see Ivy grow up," she said. "We have been completely overwhelmed with all the donations, love and support from everyone. We read every single message of support on the page."

Geraghty’s sister Becca Storer, 37, launched the Just Giving page on Friday to raise £100,000 for treatment. Incredibly, more than £40,000 has already been pledged.

"It's been absolutely devastating," Storer said, of the diagnosis. "Kate and Paul have been looking forward to being parents for years now, and it has been blighted by this horrible news."

"Obviously when she first found the lump, she was concerned, but thought it was nothing to worry about," Storer said. "She was sick anyway, and just assumed that it was a result of that. It was a really difficult birth, and obviously after that she had all the joys of being a mom to take her mind off the lump, and Christmas and News Year's distracted her too."

"We went out for lunch about three months after Ivy was born, and I noticed that it had got bigger," she said. "It started out being the size of a pea but by the time she was diagnosed it had grown into the size of a golf ball. I was just honest with her, and told her that she needed to get it checked out."

"That was when she got the devastating news, and from there it's been one thing after the other," Storer said. "It should have been a really happy year, and instead it's been full of tests, operations and bad news. When she was told that it was inoperable and terminal, it was just the most utterly devastating news that you could imagine."

"Ivy is such a beautiful little girl, and Kate is the most wonderful mom you could imagine," she said. "It's devastating to think how little time they will have together. Initially she was told that she only had a few months left, but from our research, it seems like this immmunotherapy treatment could prolong her life."

NEARLY 207 MILLION EGGS RECALLED OVER SALMONELLA FEARS

"We've heard of past cases where people have been given an extra year or two as a result of it, and we're hoping that it can be the same for Kate," Storer said. "The goal right now is to give her enough time so that she can see Ivy's first birthday, and create those happy memories with her before she goes."

"I created the Just Giving page for my sister, who has gone from achieving all of her dreams to living her worst nightmare in the space of four short, terrifying months," Storer said. “This was supposed to be Kate's year. Instead she's facing the battle of a lifetime to fight a very aggressive form of cancer."

"Kate is anything but defeatist and messaged me soon after her appointment to ask that we start helping her look for options for immunotherapy," she said. "I am completely in awe at Kate's strength and determination, but we are now literally fighting for her life and we need help."

"Kate and Paul have been so strong, but they need help to prolong her life as much as possible and to let her be a mother to her little girl," Storer said.Jamie Oliver has long been a proponent of providing children with healthier, better-quality meals in their school lunches and at home, making his most recent statements about allowing his kids to eat at McDonald’s all the more surprising.

Oliver, who just launched a new campaign against fast-food advertising called #AdEnough, has admitted that his kids are free to go to McDonald’s if they so choose, despite his own aversions.

“If they wanted to go, I'd let them. Because they get really well fed 95 percent of the time from us. If they want to go out and have a fizzy drink I don't care, because we have none in the house,” said Oliver, according to The Telegraph.

MARIO BATALI SAID TO BE 'EXPLORING' OPTIONS FOR POSSIBLE COMEBACK

The celebrity chef said his wife Jools, on the other hand, might not be as lenient.

“My wife's probably stricter,” Oliver said. “She'd say, ‘Oh please, don't.’ But they'd only end up doing it in some other place."

Oliver launched his most recent crusade against fast food — called #AdEnough — on Tuesday, to combat what he says is the junk food industry’s “relentless” efforts to advertise their products to children.

“If you’ve had enough of the bombardment and the targeting of junk food advertising to British kids, then you can get involved right now,” says Oliver in a Twitter message, adding that he’s also working with lawmakers to change regulations for how these foods can be marketed.

MARTHA STEWART TO JOIN FOOD NETWORK'S 'CHOPPED'

He also asked supporters to “simply take a selfie of you covering up your eyes” and share it to social media with the hashtag #AdEnough, “because frankly, the only thing that’s going to keep your kids from seeing junk food advertising is [covering their eyes],” he added.

Oliver’s previous efforts to provide more wholesome food to kids has been documented in TV series such as “Jamie’s School Dinners” and “Jamie Oliver’s Food Revolution,” the latter of which covered Oliver’s attempts to teach Huntington, W.Va. — the “the unhealthiest city in America” — to change its eating habits. In the show, he also spoke out about the "pink slime" used at fast food restaurants.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

In 2005, following his BBC series “Jamie’s School Dinners,” Oliver was credited with helping convince the British government to spend 280 million pounds (approximately $400 million) on better ingredients for school meals, the BBC reported.The "Bandit" bonus was in effect at the Barrett-Jackson auction in Palm Beach this past weekend when one of Burt Reynold's own Pontiacs sold for twice what similar cars are worth.

The white 1980 Turbo Trans Am Indy 500 Pace Car is one of 5,700 that were made and was from Reynold’s personal collection. It’s additionally significant for being powered by the brand’s first turbocharged engine, a 301 cubic inch V8 good for 210 hp and 345 lb-ft of torque, which was impressive in the malaise era.

THE MOVIE CARS OF BURT REYNOLDS

Mechanically identical to the black and gold car the Hollywood legend drove in “Smokey and the Bandit 2,” which today is on display at The Country Music Hall of Fame in Nashville, the pace car replica had just 1,600 miles on the odometer as it crossed the auction block.

TRANS AM RETURNS FOR 2018:

According to the Hagerty Price Guide, one of these in perfect condition should be worth around $53,000, but this one went for an impressive $110,000, no doubt thanks to its celebrity connection.

But even at that price it’s far from the most expensive classic car connected to the star. Two years ago, a 1977 Trans Am that was used to promote the original “Smokey and the Bandit” was sold for $550,000 at the Barrett-Jackson auction in Scottsdale, Ariz., and it wasn’t even one of the cars featured in the film.For the first time, a treatment that boosts the immune system greatly improved survival in people newly diagnosed with the most common form of lung cancer. It's the biggest win so far for immunotherapy, which has had much of its success until now in less common cancers.

In the study, Merck's Keytruda, given with standard chemotherapy, cut in half the risk of dying or having the cancer worsen, compared to chemo alone after nearly one year. The results are expected to quickly set a new standard of care for about 70,000 patients each year in the United States whose lung cancer has already spread by the time it's found.

Another study found that an immunotherapy combo — the Bristol-Myers Squibb drugs Opdivo and Yervoy — worked better than chemo for delaying the time until cancer worsened in advanced lung cancer patients whose tumors have many gene flaws, as nearly half do. But the benefit lasted less than two months on average and it's too soon to know if the combo improves overall survival, as Keytruda did.

NEW MOM GIVEN MONTHS TO LIVE AFTER FINDING LUMP ON FACE DURING LABOR

All of these immune therapy treatments worked for only about half of patients, but that's far better than chemo has done in the past.

"We're not nearly where we need to be yet," said Dr. Roy Herbst, a Yale Cancer Center lung expert who had no role in the studies.

Results were discussed Monday at an American Association for Cancer Research conference in Chicago and published by the New England Journal of Medicine. The studies were sponsored by the drugmakers, and many study leaders and Herbst consult for the companies.

ABOUT THE DRUGS

Keytruda, Yervoy and Opdivo are called checkpoint inhibitors. They remove a cloak that some cancer cells have that hides them from the immune system. The drugs are given through IVs and cost about $12,500 a month.

Keytruda was approved last year as an initial treatment with chemo for the most common form of advanced lung cancer, but doctors have been leery to use it because that was based on a small study that did not show whether it prolongs life.

The new study, led by Dr. Leena Gandhi of NYU's Perlmutter Cancer Center, gives that proof. In it, 616 patients were given chemo and some also received Keytruda. Those not given Keytruda were allowed to switch to it if their cancer worsened.

After one year, 69 percent of people originally assigned to Keytruda were alive versus 49 percent of the others — a result that experts called remarkable considering that the second group's survival was improved because half of them wound up switching.

How much it ultimately will extend life isn't known — more than half in the Keytruda group are still alive; median survival was just over 11 months for the others.

The Keytruda combo also delayed the time until cancer worsened — an average of nine months versus five months for the chemo-only group.

That's a big difference for such an advanced cancer, said Dr. Alice Shaw, a Massachusetts General Hospital lung cancer expert and one of the conference leaders. "This is really a pivotal study ... a new standard of care," said Shaw, who has no ties to the drugmakers.

Rates of serious side effects were similar, but twice as many in the Keytruda group dropped out because of them. More than 4 percent of that group developed lung inflammation and three patients died of it.

THE COMPETITION

Dr. Matthew Hellmann of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York led a study testing the Opdivo-Yervoy combo versus chemo in a slightly different group of newly diagnosed advanced lung cancer patients.

MULTISTATE E. COLI OUTBREAK TRACED TO ROMAINE LETTUCE FROM ARIZONA

The study design was changed after it was underway to look at results according to patients' tumor mutation burden — a measure of how flawed their cancer genes are, according to a profiling test by Foundation Medicine. Medicare recently agreed to cover the $3,000 test for advanced cancers.

Of 679 patients, 299 had a high number of gene flaws in their tumors. In that group, survival without worsening of disease was 43 percent after one year for those on the immunotherapy drugs versus 13 percent of those on chemo. The immunotherapy drugs did not help people with fewer tumor gene flaws.

"We have a tool that helps us determine who are the patients that are most likely to benefit from this combination," Hellmann said.

The median time until cancer worsened was about 7 months on the immunotherapy drugs versus 5.5 months for chemo. Serious side effects were a little more common in the chemo group.

Another rival, Genentech, recently announced that its checkpoint inhibitor, Tecentriq, improved survival in a study similar to the one testing Keytruda. Details are expected in a couple months.Surgical goggles developed by researchers at the University of Illinois and Washington University are able to spot cancerous tissue where the human eye won’t, a new study claims.

The goggles, which were tested in mice and women with breast cancer, have an integrated camera that can pick up infrared signals beneath the surface of the tissue.

The tiny device was inspired by the morpho butterfly's eyes, according to the study published in the journal Optica.

Researchers explained that before the surgery the women were injected with a green dye containing a protein that attaches specifically to cancer cells.

IN A FIRST, TWO ROBOTS REMOVE UTERUS AND COLON IN

SIMULTANEOUS SURGERY

The dyed cells emit an infrared signal that cannot be seen by the human eye, but is detected by the camera in the goggles worn by the surgeons.

"By looking at the way nature has designed the visual systems of insects, we can address serious problems that exist with cancer surgery today and make sure there are no cancer cells left behind during surgery," said study leader Viktor Gruev, an Illinois professor of electrical and computer engineering and of the Carle Illinois College of Medicine, as quoted by Eureka Alert.

BIG BROTHER GETS HAIRCUT TO MIMIC SISTER'S 10-INCH BRAIN

SURGERY SCAR

"Our technology is much quicker because one of the advantages is imaging deeper in the tissue," Gruev said. "Sometimes when they're looking for green coloration, they're looking for a while because the nodes are below the surface. With the fluorescence, you can see through the skin or the tissue and identify them much quicker."

Since the camera can pick up signals beneath the surface of the tissue, the surgeons could even locate tumor sites through the skin.

'NIGHTMARE BACTERIA' CASES SEEN IN 27 STATES, CDC REPORTS

"We could image before the incision and identify the potential points of interest to minimize the incision," said Missael Garcia, a postdoctoral researcher at Illinois and the first author of the paper.

Gruev noted that not only is the new technology more sensitive and accurate, but much smaller and lower-cost than currently available instruments that are FDA-approved.

"We anticipate it to cost around $200, compared with $20,000 for the cheapest FDA-approved instrument," he said.

With reporting by SWNS.A group of scientists recently discovered an organ you didn’t know you had.

While performing endoscopies -- a non-surgical procedure where a small camera attached to a tube is used to examine the gastrointestinal tract -- scientists came across what they now call the "interstitium." The organ is a “previously unappreciated fluid-filled interstitial space, draining to lymph nodes and supported by a complex network of thick collagen bundles,” according to the study’s authors.

In other words, scientists found “interconnected compartments filled with fluid,” Newsweek reported, which “act as shock absorbers,” Neil Theise, a pathologist at New York University School of Medicine, told New Scientist. The interstitium protects the body’s organs, muscles and more from “bumps and shocks,” according to Newsweek.

The interstitium may help scientists better understand how cancer spreads.

“These anatomic structures may be important in cancer metastasis, edema, fibrosis and mechanical functioning of many or all tissues and organs,” the study’s authors wrote.

Since the interstitium helps move fluid around the body, it may also be a way that cancer spreads and moves into a person’s lymphatic system.

“Once they get in, it’s like they’re on a water slide,” Theise said. “We have a new window on the mechanism of tumor spread.”

If the broader scientific community accepts their findings, the interstitium could become the body’s official 80th organ, according to Newsweek.It was an ordinary surgery to remove a tumor — until doctors turned off the lights and the patient's chest started to glow. A spot over his heart shined purplish pink. Another shimmered in a lung.

They were hidden cancers revealed by fluorescent dye, an advance that soon may transform how hundreds of thousands of operations are done each year.

Surgery has long been the best way to cure cancer. If the disease recurs, it's usually because stray tumor cells were left behind or others lurked undetected. Yet there's no good way for surgeons to tell what is cancer and what is not. They look and feel for defects, but good and bad tissue often seem the same.

Now, dyes are being tested to make cancer cells light up so doctors can cut them out and give patients a better shot at survival.

With dyes, "it's almost like we have bionic vision," said Dr. Sunil Singhal at the University of Pennsylvania. "We can be sure we're not taking too much or too little."

The dyes are experimental but advancing quickly. Two are in late-stage studies aimed at winning Food and Drug Administration approval. Johnson & Johnson just invested $40 million in one, and federal grants support some of the work.

"We think this is so important. Patients' lives will be improved by this," said Paula Jacobs, an imaging expert at the National Cancer Institute. In five or so years, "there will be a palette of these," she predicts.

MAKING CELLS GLOW

Singhal was inspired a decade ago, while pondering a student who died when her lung cancer recurred soon after he thought he had removed it all. He was lying next to his baby, gazing at fluorescent decals.

"I looked up and saw all these stars on the ceiling and I thought, how cool if we could make cells light up" so people wouldn't die from unseen tumors, he said.

A dye called ICG had long been used for various medical purposes. Singhal found that when big doses were given by IV a day before surgery, it collected in cancer cells and glowed when exposed to near infrared light. He dubbed it TumorGlow and has been testing it for lung, brain and other tumor types.

He used it on Ryan Ciccozzi, a 45-year-old highway worker and father of four from Deptford, New Jersey, and found hidden cancer near Ciccozzi's heart and in a lung.

"The tumor was kind of growing into everything in there," Ciccozzi said. "Without the dye, I don't think they would have seen anything" besides the baseball-sized mass visible on CT scans ahead of time.

Singhal also is testing a dye for On Target Laboratories, based in the Purdue research park in Indiana, that binds to a protein more common in cancer cells. A late-stage study is underway for ovarian cancer and a mid-stage one for lung cancer.

In one study, the dye highlighted 56 of 59 lung cancers seen on scans before surgery, plus nine more that weren't visible ahead of time.

Each year, about 80,000 Americans have surgery for suspicious lung spots. If a dye can show that cancer is confined to a small node, surgeons can remove a wedge instead of a whole lobe and preserve more breathing capacity, said On Target chief Marty Low. No price has been set, but dyes are cheap to make and the cost should fit within rates hospitals negotiate with insurers for these operations, he said.

BIG PROMISE FOR BREAST CANCER

Dyes may hold the most promise for breast cancer, said the American Cancer Society's Dr. Len Lichtenfeld. Up to one third of women who have a lump removed need a second operation because margins weren't clear — an edge of the removed tissue later was found to harbor cancer.

"If we drop that down into single digits, the impact is huge," said Kelly Londy, who heads Lumicell, a suburban Boston company testing a dye paired with a device to scan the lump cavity for stray cancer cells.

A device called MarginProbe is sold now, but it uses different technology to examine the surface of tissue that's been taken out, so it can't pinpoint in the breast where residual disease lurks, said Dr. Barbara Smith, a breast surgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital.

She leads a late-stage study of Lumicell's system in 400 breast cancer patients. In an earlier study of 60 women, it revealed all of the cancers, verified by tissue tests later.

But it also gave false alarms in more than a quarter of cases — "there were some areas where normal tissue lit up a little bit," Smith said.

Still, she said, "you would rather take a little extra tissue with the first surgery rather than missing something and have to go back."

OTHER CANCERS

Blaze Bioscience is testing Tumor Paint, patented by company co-founder Dr. Jim Olson of Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and Seattle Children's Hospital. It's a combo product — a molecule that binds to cancer and a dye to make it glow.

"You can see it down to a few dozen cells or a few hundred cells," Olson said. "I've seen neurosurgeons come out of the operating room with a big smile on their face because they can see the cancer very clearly."

Early-stage studies have been done for skin, brain and breast cancers in adults, and brain tumors in children.

Avelas Biosciences of San Diego has a similar approach — a dye attached to a molecule to carry it into tumor cells. The company is finishing early studies in breast cancer and plans more for colon, head and neck, ovarian and other types.

Cancer drugs have had a lot of attention while ways to improve surgery have had far less, said company president Carmine Stengone.

"This was just an overlooked area, despite the high medical need."Imagine if you could detect cancer within seconds. A group of researchers from the University of Texas at Austin say they’ve developed the technology to do just that. The MasSpec Pen, which is being showcased at SXSW this week, can identify cancerous tissue during surgery in real time.

“The MasSpec Pen is a handheld device coupled to a mass spectrometer that can diagnose cancer during surgery in 20 seconds,” said Marta Sans, graduate research assistant for the Livia Eberlin Research Group.



The pen uses touch to make a diagnosis. It’s placed over tissue. A foot pedal triggers the device, and the pen releases water droplets, which extract molecules from the tissue. The water is drawn into the mass spectrometer, which then analyzes the molecular composition.

ELON MUSK PLANS MARS SPACESHIP, WARNS THERE'S A 'GOOD CHANCE' THAT EARLY PASSENGERS COULD DIE



“Then, we can create a molecular fingerprint that can say if this is cancer or if it’s not based on the molecules of the pen,” said Sans.

For doctors, the technology is groundbreaking. Determining cancerous tissue from normal tissue during surgery is sometimes difficult and waiting for results from pathologists is often time-consuming.

“The doctor may take it out, may have to send it to the pathologist for a frozen section. Meanwhile, everyone’s waiting for a report from the pathologist to see if the margin’s clear,” said Dr. Leonard Lichtenfeld, Deputy Chief Medical Officer for the American Cancer Society.

SADIQ KHAN: 'DERELICTION OF DUTY' BY POLICY MAKERS FOR FAILING TO REGULATE BIG TECH

Furthermore, Lichtenfeld says the failure to remove all cancerous tissue during surgery can create more complications down the road.



“The real question is, if you don’t get all the cancer out, does that leave a place? A sanctuary, if you would, where tumor cells can stay and come back or even migrate to other parts of the body at a later time?” said Lichtenfeld.



And just because the cancer pen is fast doesn’t mean it’s not accurate. Researchers say after analyzing 300 patient samples, they were able to diagnose four types of cancer ‒ breast, thyroid, ovarian and lung cancer ‒ with over 96 percent accuracy, eliminating the risks of unnecessarily removing healthy tissue.

IBM TOUTS WATSON SUPERCOMPUTER TO SPEED UP

SCIENTIFIC BREAKTHROUGHS



“It’s going to provide great benefits to patients and also to the health care system,” said Sans.



Still, Lichtenfeld is cautiously optimistic.



“We have to remember that it’s a long way from concept, to proving it really works, to get it used by doctors in real life. We don’t know the answer to that yet and, clearly, the researchers understand that they have more work to do,” he said.



The MasSpec Pen hasn’t been tested on a human during surgery yet. Over the next several months, three of the devices will be installed in Texas hospitals: Dell Medical School, MD Anderson Cancer Center and Baylor College of Medicine.



The Food and Drug Administration has to approve the technology as well, and the regulatory process could take a few years.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday allowed genetic testing company 23andMe to market directly to consumers its test that will help assess three mutations in a common type of breast cancer gene.

The drug regulator said the test, which work by analyzing DNA collected from saliva samples, provides genetic risk information but cannot determine a person's overall risk of developing a disease or condition.

FDA ALLOWS 23ANDME TO SELL GENETIC TESTS FOR 10 DISEASES

The test detects only three out of more than 1,000 known BRCA mutations and are not the most common ones in the general population, the drug regulator said.

BRCA mutations account for about 50 percent of hereditary breast cancers and up to 65 percent of those who inherit the mutations will develop breast cancer.

The regulator said it reviewed data for the company's test under a regulatory pathway for low-to-moderate risk devices that are not equivalent to an already marketed device.

CAN POLICE LEGALLY OBTAIN YOUR DNA FROM 23ANDME, ANCESTRY?

The agency also set a condition known as special controls, clarifying its expectations for assuring test accuracy and reliability.President Trump does not take on small tasks—confronting North Korea after predecessors kicked the can, reforming taxes and business regulations and now America’s corrosive trade deficit.

Nothing he does is without drama—repeatedly shaking up the White House staff, personal legal troubles, and tariffs that aggravate allies and the moribund WTO. Yet, the economy has proven resilient— stocks notwithstanding, consumer confidence and business activity are strong, and forecasts for economic growth in 2018 are close to 3 percent.

To keep his promise to resurrect communities decimated by globalization, he has to do a lot more to address America’s flood of imports than slap tariffs on aluminum and steel.

Reawakening shuttered factories in the vast expanse between Manhattan and the Silicon Valley requires halving the $650 billion trade gap. That’s what it will take to sustain growth in excess of 3 percent, bring in tax revenues to tame budget deficits and rein in foreign borrowing that threatens another financial meltdown.

Otherwise, the Democrats will take back control, and we know what their brand of economics does to working class Americans—diminished lives, opioid addiction and the indignity of government charity.

China accounts for more than 60 percent of the trade gap, and it’s not cheap labor that’s harpooning American industry. Beijing has been carefully guiding investment toward mid-technology activities like auto parts and targeting high tech industries like microprocessors and artificial intelligence—the latter is increasingly abundant in new products across a broad span of new products.

For those, Beijing’s mercantilism is key—vast subsidies, high tariffs and a myriad of administrative barriers to imports that compel U.S. firms to invest in China to sell there, forced joint ventures on U.S. firms establishing facilities in China that virtually guarantee technology theft and state-directed industrial espionage.

Competing with China is like playing football against a team outfitted with guns and knives.

Enforcing U.S. trade laws and relying on the WTO is hardly an answer. The U.S. has imposed more than 150 antidumping and subsidy duties, but WTO rules require riffle shots—narrowly focused measures that hardly match the breath and systemic scope of Chinese commercial aggression.

WTO rules were written to police the protectionism of governments overseeing market economies and are not well applied to a central authority puppeteering state owned enterprise and private firms with substantial communist party participation in their management.

Once again, China and the United States are engaged in discussions to permit more U.S. exports and stop the abuse of American MNCs investing there. And once again Beijing is floating limited, as opposed to comprehensive reforms—and without credible enforcement.

If China is not more forthcoming, the Trump administration is readying another set of unilateral measures. Some make sense—for example, imposing restrictions on Chinese investments in American technology sectors that mirror those imposed on U.S. firms in China—but others don’t.

The administration is threatening tariffs on $150 billion in Chinese exports to offset U.S. losses from intellectual property piracy—against a $335 bilateral deficit, that’s chump change.

We have learned that targeted trade actions don’t change Beijing’s behavior. Chinese exporters find ways around those—for example, by routing goods through third counties, either cleverly disguised or incorporated into other products.

And Beijing can easily retaliate against Mr. Trump’s targeted tariffs by levying duties on U.S. agricultural products like pork, sorghum and soybeans from states that went for Mr. Trump in 2016. Causing discomfort for China’s unelected President Xi is more difficult.

It would be better to prepare broad measures aimed at rebalancing trade if China will not provide a specific timetable and credible measures to eliminate the trade deficit.

The United States could require licenses to import Chinese goods. Exporters could be issued resalable import permits equal to the value of their sales in the Middle Kingdom. Those wishing to purchase items from China would then bid for these through an online marketplace—similar to eBay. Those would be purchased by those businesses and consumers placing the highest value of products from China.

Phasing in this regime over three years would give businesses time to adjust but still create crises for Beijing policymakers and the WTO. That’s what it’s going to take to reorder our relationship with China and reform the WTO.Our nation’s communications networks benefit us in ways unimaginable at the start of the digital age. But a potential danger lurks: hidden “backdoors” in network equipment. A hostile foreign power could use these backdoors to spy on Americans or attack our critical infrastructure by injecting viruses or launching denial-of-service attacks. These backdoors can be designed into routers, switches, and virtually any other type of telecommunications equipment that, together, make up our networks.

This highlights the importance of our networks’ supply chain—that is, the process by which telecommunications equipment is manufactured, sold, distributed, and installed. Whether the threat involves hacking into our nation’s communications networks or conducting industrial or political espionage at the behest of a foreign government, the integrity of the supply chain has worried U.S. government officials for years.

In 2012, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence released a bipartisan report on the national security threats posed by certain foreign manufacturers. This past year, Congress barred the Department of Defense from buying certain equipment and services from Chinese companies Huawei and ZTE on account of concerns about those companies’ connections to that country’s government. And Congress recently banned all federal agencies from using products or services made by Kaspersky Lab, a company with alleged ties to the Russian government.

We’re committed to protecting our national security, and this proposal is a prudent step to accomplish that goal.

But the supply-chain threat persists. Just this February, FBI Director Christopher Wray testified about “the risks of allowing any company or entity that is beholden to foreign governments that don’t share our values to gain positions of power inside our telecommunications networks.” These risks include the ability to “maliciously modify or steal information” and “conduct undetected espionage.” As the supply chain for our networks increasingly stretches beyond U.S. borders, this danger has become all too real.

Given the national security risks, we believe it’s time for more concerted federal action. Among other things, that means making sure that our government doesn’t make the problem worse by spending the American people’s money on products and services from any company that poses a national security threat to our communications networks.

The Federal Communications Commission is a good place to start. It regulates America’s communications networks. And it administers the Universal Service Fund, an almost $9 billion-per-year program designed to ensure that all Americans have access to phone and broadband services. The money in the Fund comes from fees paid by the American people on their phone bills. About $4.7 billion annually is spent expanding high-speed Internet access in rural communities; $2.7 billion helps connect schools and libraries to the Internet; $1.3 billion assists in making phone and broadband services more affordable to low-income Americans; and about $300 million supports communications services for rural health-care facilities. These are important programs. But there’s no reason one dime of this funding should go to suppliers that raise national security concerns. There are plenty of other providers we can use to help bridge the digital divide.

That’s why the FCC will vote on April 17 on Chairman Pai’s recent proposal to bar the use of universal service funding to buy equipment or services from any company that poses a national security threat to the integrity of our communications networks or the communications supply chain. If approved, the proposal would also seek public input on how we should identify suspect firms and which types of telecommunications equipment or services should fall within the prohibition. Everyone concerned about this issue will have a chance to weigh in.

Bottom line: We’re committed to protecting our national security, and this proposal is a prudent step to accomplish that goal. The FCC, Congress, and all government agencies must work together to safeguard the integrity of our communications supply chain. We strongly urge the full Commission to approve this proposal and for other agencies to follow the lead.When your CEO just faced a grilling by the Senate over a lack of privacy and data protection, it looks pretty bad if a company continues to fight against new privacy laws. So it will come as little surprise that Facebook has decided to no longer fight to block the proposed California Consumer Privacy Act.

The Privacy Act being proposed would empower anyone in the state to tell businesses not to share or sell their personal data, give them the right to know what personal information is collected about them, and offers protections for consumers "who are victims of negligent business practices resulting in security breaches of data." All of which don't help a company like Facebook, which profits from having a lot of freedom to collect and use your data.

As Engadget reports, Facebook had already donated $200,000 to help try and defeat the act. It won't be contributing anymore money, but AT&T, Comcast, Google, and Verizon are some of the bigger companies who continue to fight against it. The worry for these companies is, a limit on data access and flow also limits their business model and therefore potential profit. And if one state enacts new data privacy rules, others will surely follow.

The Privacy Act is on the ballot in November. Facebook may have removed itself from the fight, but if revelations about abuse of data on the social network continue to appear, it could influence citizens who will vote to protect themselves.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.An increasing number of police departments and federal authorities have bought devices that can unlock iPhones, according to a report from Motherboard. Using public-records requests, Motherboard determined that both local and regional police forces obtained units of a machine called GrayKey, and that the State Department has GrayKeys as well.

Specifically, Motherboard names the Maryland and Indiana State Police, Miami-Dade police and the U.S. State Department as having purchased the device. Many others, including the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local polices forces, have received purchase quotes or have sent emails showing interest in purchasing it. The FBI refused to disclose to Motherboard whether it had purchased the machine.

GrayKey was detailed on the MalwareBytes blog back in March and works on iPhones, including the most recent iPhone 8 and iPhone X, up to at least iOS 11.2.5. (Whether it works with later versions of iOS is unknown.) A $15,000 version of GrayKey requires an internet connection and allows 300 unlocks, while the $30,000 version cracks as many iPhones as you would like.

In 2016, the FBI demanded that Apple specially write new code so that the agency could get into an iPhone used by one of the married shooters in the San Bernardino terrorist attack. Apple refused, which resulted in a long and ugly battle between Apple and the FBI over user privacy, which the FBI ultimately dropped when Apple wanted to let it go to court and the FBI found a (possibly Israeli) company that could get into the shooter's phone.

Ultimately, Apple may be able to patch whatever exploit GrayKey is using to crack iPhones. (The device seems to bypass Apple's restrictions on the number and frequency of wrong passcode entries.) But as Motherboard's full report (which you should read here) shows, law-enforcement agencies want to retain their (perfectly legal, with a warrant) access to suspects' mobile devices to aid in investigations, and the people over in Cupertino might not be too happy about that.While everyone's in an uproar about Facebook accounts getting skimmed for data, a new study claims that thousands of Android apps are in breach of standards for monitoring kids' behavior online.

The study, which comes from researchers at the International Computer Science Institute in Berkeley, CA, analyzed 5,855 of the most popular free Android apps targeted at kids and families. The team found its results with an automatic test that detects how data is handled in Android apps.

Shockingly, a total of 57 percent of the apps studied appeared to be in potential violation of COPPA, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), a 1998 law that looks to safeguard the privacy of users under the age of 13.

Part of the potential violations at hand include the nugget that 92 percent of the 1,280 apps that plug into Facebook's API may be using it for activities prohibited by COPPA.

Further, 19 percent of children's apps collect some kind of identifier "or other personally identifiable information" using software development kits (SDKs) whose terms of service say these programs shouldn't be used in children's apps.

And when it comes to collecting and sending user data, the study found that 2,344 of the 5,855 apps — that's 40 percent of them — did not use Transport Layer Security (TLS) for every transmission containing "identifiers or other sensitive information." Further, the amount of at-risk data is likely higher, as the study notes that it didn't examine if TLS was used correctly, only checking if it was there or not.

The study also discovered that 1,100 of these apps (that's 18.8 percent) send data using a software development kit that is not meant to be used with kids apps, and whose terms of service forbid it. Popular examples include the language learning app Duolingo, the infinite running game Minion Rush and the Disney puzzle game Where's My Water?.

Scott Shackelford, associate professor of Business Law and Ethics at Indiana University's Kelley School of Business, and Cybersecurity Program Chair, at IU-Bloomington told us "This important study highlights the sad fact that tech companies are simply not doing enough to comply with the regulatory requirements Congress has put into place to help protect vulnerable, and impressionable, kids."

"It’s not a case here of not following the spirit of the law," he continued, "they don’t seem to be following even its letter." Shackelford sees the study fitting into our present conversation about social media: This should be a wakeup call to these developers, along with platforms like Google and Facebook that host them. It’s past time to treat privacy—especially for minors—as the human right it is.”

When we asked Shackelford if iOS is better for kids than Android, he said "No platform is perfect, but parents should be aware that, on average, iOS does have advantages in both privacy and security over Android."

Looking for help keeping your kids private? Shackleford advised being more proactive, "To really get ahead of the problem, though, parents should use software like FamilyTime to help keep a closer eye on the apps their kids are using, and make sure that private browsers and extensions—like DuckDuckGo and Privacy Badger—are the norm. Remember, the Internet is written in ink!”A new fingerprint technique is being used to convict a drug gang after one of the members' fingerprints was found on a WhatsApp message.

The image in question is of one of the gang members holding ecstasy tablets in his palm. The image was found on a cell phone of someone arrested in Bridgend, Wales, according to a BBC report. It was then sent to the South Wales Police scientific support unit and used to help secure 11 convictions.

It is believed these are the first convictions in Wales that have been aided by using fingerprints from a photograph.

IS FACEBOOK LISTENING IN ON YOUR CONVERSATIONS CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA WHISTLEBLOWER THINKS SO

Dave Thomas, the Regional Head of Forensic Operations for the South Wales Police, said the new technology being used is "groundbreaking," offering new ways to analyze evidence.

"It is an old-fashioned technique [fingerprinting], not new," Thomas said in comments obtained by the BBC. "Ultimately, beyond everything else, we took a phone and looked at everything on it - we knew it had a hand with drugs on it."

Thomas added: "These guys [the dealers] are using the technology not to get caught and we need to keep up with advancements."

The drug gang was arrested after a tip led the police to a house in the Kenfig Hill area of Bridgend. The house was raided and large amounts of "gorilla glue," a type of marijuana, was found.

Thomas also noted that the WhatsApp messages had been going on for months, including details such as what the drug dealers wanted to sell, "It had a number of texts such as 'what do you want to buy?' on it," and the one photo that showed a fingerprint.

Face swapping is cool but it definitely has a sinister side. New software is trying to combat this.

Face swapping is already widely available via apps like Snapchat and Face Swap live. While it's meant to be a fun diversion, it can also be used maliciously. For instance, revenge porn that swaps the face of an ex-spouse onto a person in an explicit video.

“Pornographic videos called ‘deepfakes’ have emerged on websites such as Reddit and 4Chan showing famous individuals’ faces superimposed onto the bodies of actors,” according to a report at MIT Technology Review.

HOW AI-GENERATED VIDEOS COULD BE THE NEXT BIG THING IN FAKE NEWS

The report continues. “At the very least, it has the potential to undermine the reputation of people who are victims of this kind of forgery.”

To combat this, Andreas Rossler at the Technical University of Munich in Germany, working with other academics, has developed a system for detecting forgeries.

In an abstract describing the technology, the researchers say that some uses “raise a legitimate alarm,” making it necessary to develop “reliable detectors of fake videos.”

While it’s extremely difficult for humans to distinguish between fakes, it’s challenging for computers too, according to the researchers. “Especially when the videos are compressed or have low resolution, as it often happens on social networks,” the research notes.

In a YouTube video explaining the technology, the research shows video clips where it is virtually impossible to tell that the facial expressions have been manipulated. For example, a video clip shows the face of Russian president Vladimir Putin, with the original video and the manipulated versions side by side. The researchers detect the “manipulated pixels” of an image to determine if it’s a fake.

APPLE'S NEW IOS 11.3 IS HERE: WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW

To date, research on face manipulation has been hampered by a “lack of…datasets,” according to Rossler and his team. So, they created a “face manipulation dataset” of about half a million edited images from over 1000 videos.

Their “deep learning algorithm” to detect fakes uses this set of images, according to the MIT Technology Review report.

But bad actors can take advantage of this too. “The same deep-learning technique that can spot face-swap videos can also be used to improve the quality of face swaps in the first place—and that could make them harder to detect,” according to the MIT Technology Review.

But Rossler and his team have found that even when the visual quality of the forgery is refined, it does not have much effect on the technology they use to detect it.Don Prudhomme had no clue what he was doing the first time he raced Baja.

He didn't know the course. He didn't grasp the conditions. He didn't even have the right setup in the car.

The legendary drag racer was a last-minute fill-in for actor Steve McQueen, who had to bail because of filming obligations. Prudhomme teamed with friend and fellow racer Tony Nancy for the 1,000-mile sprint across the desert and through tiny towns in Mexico. They drove McQueen's car — a dune buggy Nancy built with a Porsche engine — and made it about 100 miles before flames started spewing out of the tailpipes.

Prudhomme walked away with more regrets than recollections.

Now, 50 years later, he's looking for redemption.

"Hope to have a little better luck this time," Prudhomme told The Associated Press from his home in San Diego.

The 77-year-old Prudhomme will return to Baja for the Mexican 1000 next week, his first competitive race since retiring from NHRA in 1994.

"It's always been a thorn in my side that we never finished the race," Prudhomme said. "But thinking back on it, it's kind of a good thing or else I'd still be lost out there in the desert. We didn't know what the hell we were doing. I would say luckily we broke down, to be honest with you. Now, going back, it's a bucket list thing. It's like climbing a mountain you didn't make it up years ago."

Or decades ago.

The Mexican 1000 is a five-day, off-road rally run by the National Off-Road Racing Association, which ran the first Baja 1000 in 1967. It celebrates off-road racing history and vintage off-road vehicles. Cars, trucks, buggies and motorcycles from all eras of Baja racing are eligible to participate in a variety of classes. The race begins April 22 in Ensenda, Mexico, and ends in San Jose del Cabo, Mexico.

Even though Prudhomme hasn't entered the event since that ill-fated trip in 1968, he has plenty of desert experience.

He's made countless trips through the Baja desert in recent years, either alone on an adventure motorcycle or with buddies in off-road vehicles. Prudhomme was with three-time NASCAR champion Tony Stewart and fellow drivers Jeff Gordon and Greg Biffle in 2016 when Stewart broke his back flying over a sand dune and bottoming-out his buggy.

He also knows the course considerably better half a century later.

There have been significant technological advances, too, like GPS, on-board computers, helmets that don't allow in fumes and dirt, and sensors for every part of his 2018 Polaris that's been beefed up by P.J. Jones, son of 1963 Indianapolis 500 winner Parnelli Jones.

"This should be a fun event for him," said former NASCAR driver and off-road champion Robby Gordon. "It's pretty cool. It's good to have other forms of motorsport come to Baja and see the adventure. That's the biggest thing that Baja brings: It brings an adventure that no other form of motorsport does because every corner is different, every road is different and just because the car went through there in front of you, the road will change.

"It's the wild west of motorsports. There are no guardrails. There are no catch-fences."

There's no maximum age limit, either.

"It's about time he got back out there," said longtime NHRA rival "Big Daddy" Don Garlits, who recently turned 86. "He's too young to be parked."

Prudhomme agrees, adding that he feels about half his age.

"Physically, it's a piece of cake," he said. "I'll have a couple of Red Bulls along the way to keep me awake, but I don't think it will be a problem. ... I'm not trying to pretend I'm Superman or anything, but we go to Baja all the time."

Prudhomme will race in the Stock Turbo UTV class. He also will have a full crew and a helicopter following along.

"It's not a cheap date," he said.

The driver nicknamed "the Snake" won 49 national events in the Funny Car and Top Fuel classes during his NHRA career divisions, including four consecutive titles (1975-78) in Funny Car. He later added another 63 victories as an owner before shuttering his team following the 2009 season.

"Once you're competitive, you're always competitive. You never lose that," he said. "To be honest with you, I feel like it was yesterday that I quit drag racing, quit driving. I had a dream about it the other night. I had a dream I was in the staging lines getting ready to make a run. After competing for 50 years in drag racing, it just doesn't leave you. It's there. It's embedded."Kyle Larson will have to wait another day to try to capture his first NASCAR Cup Series victory of the season.

The race at Bristol Motor Speedway was postponed until Monday because of heavy rain with Larson out in front. Racing was halted three times Sunday due to wet weather.

Action is scheduled to resume Monday at 1 p.m.

Larson led 74 laps when the race was halted on lap 204, just 46 laps from it becoming official. NASCAR hopes to complete all remaining 296 laps, although the forecast calls for more rain and possibly snow.

Larson seemed to have found his groove on the track before the third and final red flag came out. NASCAR waited about an hour before officially postponing the race with a forecast of steady rain for the remainder of Sunday night.

"It's hard to get a rhythm with all the rain and stuff and then getting out of your car and getting back in," Larson said.

Larson liked the speed of his car, but said the track was slick.

"There is only a little line there on the bottom that has got some grip," said Larson, who normally likes to run on the high side of the Bristol track. "If you get out of it, it's slick. If you get below it, it's slick. So, it's been fun, but it's kind of hard to guess where you need to position your car there for a little while."

Some drivers won't have to worry about coming back Monday.

Ryan Blaney was dominant early in the No. 12 Ford, leading 99 laps of the first 119 laps before getting caught up in wreck that left his car in shambles.

It happened on turn three when Chris Buescher and Trevor Bayne, who were fighting to stay on the lead lap, got tangled up in front of Blaney, leaving him nowhere to maneuver.

His car was taken behind the wall, ending his day.

"By the time I got away from the car right in front of me they were already turned right up the race track and I was already going to the top," of the track," Blaney said. "I kind of saw them spinning low and I thought that top was going to be OK and then they slid back up and got us. That stinks. I thought we had a good car and nothing to show for it."

Michael McDowell, Chris Buescher, Harrison Rhodes and Ross Chastain also are out of the race.Red Bull driver Daniel Ricciardo yanked off his right shoe, poured champagne into it as he stood on the podium, and then drank up to his unlikely victory in Sunday's Chinese Grand Prix.

The Australian started from the third row, but took advantage when the safety car came out on the 31st lap to allow him to get fresh, soft tires when the other leaders were running on worn rubber and couldn't get in quickly to change.

Ricciardo got quicker and quicker and took the lead on the 45th lap of the 56-lap race, overtaking Valtteri Bottas with a dive on the inside past the Mercedes driver.

"A lot of time you only get one chance, so I make the most of every opportunity," Ricciardo said.

Bottas called it a "fair" pass and finished second with Ferrari's Kimi Raikkonen in third.

Red Bull's victory leaves the Formula One season in a scramble after just three races. There's no clear favorite and plenty of questions.

Mercedes, the power of the last few seasons, has not won any of the first three races with defending champion Lewis Hamilton and Bottas at the wheel. Hamilton finished fourth on Sunday and was never a factor.

NASCAR CHAMP TONY STEWART SETTLES WRONGFUL DEATH LAWSUIT WITH KEVIN WARD'S FAMILY

Sebastian Vettel of Ferrari won the first two races in Australia and Bahrain, but failed to capitalize on his pole position in China. He led for the first 20 laps but fell back, first due to a pit stop and then after a collision with Red Bull's Max Verstappen on the 43rd lap. Vettel finished eighth.

The Ferrari driver still leads the season standings with 54 points after three races.

Hamilton, the four-time and defending champion, improved his season points total to 45. Bottas has 40 points in third place and Ricciardo is fourth with 37.

Bottas acknowledged Mercedes still "has work to do."

"It's so close between Red Bull, Ferrari and us," he said. "Just depending on the conditions and whoever gets the tires and the set up right. It's very close depending on the conditions."

This was Ricciardo's sixth career win, and the first one since a victory a year ago in Azerbaijan, the venue for the next race in two weeks.

What a difference a week makes.

In Bahrain a week ago, Ricciardo and Verstappen were out after the first several laps on a frustrating weekend for Red Bull.

NASCAR TO TEST RESTRICTOR PLATES IN $1 MILLION CHARLOTTE ALL-STAR RACE

"This sport's crazy," he said. "A week ago I was with my head down after two laps; frustrated at the sport, frustrated at all the variables that are involved in the sport. Sometimes I question why I chose this sport. It does get you down a lot. But then you have a day like this it's worth all those bad ones."A Florida man asked the store clerk, "What would happen if I stole some beer?"

Police say Christopher Maxwell soon found out.

SEE IT: IS 'BOXED BEER' THE FUTURE OF BEER?

Police in Sebastian, Fla., told TCPalm.com the 33-year-old Maxwell entered a convenience store at 2:30 a.m. Friday but was told he couldn't buy beer because alcohol sales are banned in the city between 1 and 7 a.m.

In response to Maxwell's question, the clerk replied she would call 911. Maxwell still grabbed two 18-packs of Bud Light and left. The clerk did as she said.

Police found Maxwell nearby with an 18-pack in each hand. Officers said he struggled when they tried to arrest him.

ANHEUSER-BUSCH DEBUTING 'BUD LIGHT ORANGE'

He remained jailed Sunday on charges of petty theft and battery on a police officer. Records don't show if he has an attorney.next

prev

By mid-May, turkey season is over in the South. The fields where gobblers strutted a month ago have grown knee-high and are home to a good hatch of chiggers. Kerry B. Wix and I have been chasing Easterns and Osceolas since early March, but it’s not enough to suit either of us. A Tennessean, Wix has a life-size turkey feather tattooed on his forearm and a thousand-dollar mouth-call jig in his basement. He’s never killed a Merriam’s gobbler, and that’s reason enough to keep this madness moving to Nebraska, where there’s another two weeks of season left—and three tags apiece.

We’re meeting up with ­Jeremy Atkins, a Cornhusker native and one of the owners of Big&J deer attractants. Atkins grew up in Platte River country, and big whitetails are his passion. But he knows every roost tree in the vicinity too, and considers Nebraska beef overrated when compared with fried wild ­turkey. “I’ll shoot the first three jakes that stand still, and not give one damn about it,” he says. “They’re delicious.”

Of course, the Plains are known for sounds other than gobbling in spring. After we hunt some, Atkins says, we should go chase tornadoes, since the forecast looks good for funnel clouds.

Wix narrows his eyes. The thought of coming to Nebraska and having to break from hunting to even sleep or eat gets him triggered—and I’m not sure he’s at all willing to take a break to go looking for a tornado.

“I’d rather focus on turkeys first,” he says.

Atkins laughs and motions for us to get in his truck. “Take some time to enjoy the sights, Wix. We’ve got the turkey part pretty well wrapped up,” he says. “Let’s go roost a bird right now.”

PRAIRIE SAMPLER

The countryside along the Platte River is a mosaic of grasslands and crop fields, divided by rows of mature cottonwoods and oaks snaking between. Like similar habitat I’ve hunted in South Dakota, Kansas, and Oklahoma, it’s loaded with gobblers. You can still find a place to hunt here by knocking on doors, but the old rumor that no one out West cares about turkeys is pretty much a thing of the past. It’s not southern Alabama, but there is some real hunting pressure, and access is a lot easier with a local contact.

Atkins seems to know every farm and farmer in the area (that he’s the purveyor of good, high-protein deer feed seems to help our cause). As we drive, he points to various fields and fencelines. “Turkeys in that lot, and we can hunt it,” he says at one place. At another: “That spot would be killer, but the old man who owns it doesn’t allow hunting.”

Farther along, we drive through a neighborhood and pass a flock of 25 or more turkeys scratching up the front lawns of two houses. There are a half dozen strutters, one of which has a gorgeous white-tipped fan. We’re just far enough west to dabble in the Merriam’s bloodline, but the flock here has both Rio Grande and hybrid origins too; most of the birds have caramel-colored fans. Still, seeing a Merriam’s gobbler in the flesh seems to light a fire in Wix, who begins squirming in the front seat like a kid reaching for ice cream. “God, look at that beautiful son of a bitch!” he yells.

Atkins slows the truck and smiles. “Watch this.” He leans out the window, spits a forceful stream of tobacco juice, and yells, “Hoooo!” All six gobblers roar back at once, a sound that’s sharper and higher-pitched than that of our Easterns at home but causes the hair on my neck to stand up all the same. “Yard turkeys,” he says. “They’re wild but not really. They roost in the city limits and never get hunted. I’m afraid the birds we’re after won’t be quite that easy.”

ROOST RAID

We’re not far out of the neighborhood before Atkins slows his truck again and looks out his window. “Usually they hang out on this side of the road all day, where I can’t hunt, but sometimes—whoop, there they are right there!” He points out the passenger window to a 10-acre woodlot abutting a huge cut cornfield. There are cattle ­milling in the woods, and the turkeys are picking and strutting all around them.

“That’s what I was hoping to see,” says Atkins. “They don’t roost over here every night, but when they do, they pitch into that cornfield, hang out a while, and then cross the road later in the morning. I bet they’ll be flying up in the next 10 minutes. We can kill a tom in here tomorrow, but we have to sneak in super early.”

Roost hunts in the Plains states are special. Gobblers in the East can fly up about wherever they want, but in Nebraska, it’s not unusual for 50 turkeys to pile into a few big cottonwoods because they’re the only suitable trees around. On a calm morning, the yelping and gobbling you’ll hear in these spots is ­almost deafening.

We sneak into the wood lot two hours before sunrise and set up a jake and hen decoy pair 15 yards into the cornfield. I’m on the gun, while Wix is filming the hunt over my shoulder. All of us are calling. By daybreak, birds are gobbling and yelping all around us. Hens pitch into the field, and minutes later, three fat strutters with snowball heads march past our right shoulders not 10 yards away, and head straight to the decoys. One of them circles the jake, itching for a fight, and my heart is pounding as if it’s the first turkey I’ve seen all season. I drop him where he stands.

The turkey disappears into the timber, which is now bending sideways against the roaring wind.

TOM TWISTER

Over the next few days, we hopscotch among small farms. We’re in birds nearly every stop. The pace out here in the late season is punishing because it’s light enough to shoot by a quarter to six in the morning—and turkeys aren’t flying up until nine at night.

Yet with so much country and so many birds, we can’t stop ourselves. Much of the sleep we get happens leaning against a tree. Lunch is usually an apple and some jerky rummaged from the bowels of a turkey vest. We reap field strutters during midday and wake up extra early for more roost hunts. Wix shoots his Merriam’s late one evening when it slips in silently to check out our decoys and calling.

One day around noon, while driving to a new farm, we notice the skies turning an eerie black and subtle green. Atkins turns up the radio and, sure enough, there’s a tornado warning. Light rain abruptly becomes a pounding deluge, then driving hail. But we ignore all that when Atkins spots a turkey.

“There’s a longbeard right there,” he says. To our right, a lone gobbler is standing in a small field, attempting to fluff his feathers in the rain. He’s not 30 yards from a waist-high berm. No way he’d respond to a call in this weather—but you couldn’t pick an easier place to stalk a turkey. Then Atkins hits us with a revelation: “I have that field leased.”

He drives a quarter mile up the road, and we jump out of the truck, Wix with a shotgun and turkey fan, and me with a camera that I’m struggling to keep dry. I’ve never had hail hit me in the face before, and it hurts, but we keep going and sneak our way to the back of the berm.

Forgetting the weather, the stalk itself seems almost too easy—until the gobbler spots us at the last second. He’s just 35 yards off but turning to run. Wix drops the fan, shoots, and misses. The turkey disappears into the timber, which is now bending sideways against the roaring wind. My hat is sucked off my head. I grab it before it’s gone, and Wix and I make a run for the truck as fast as waterlogged five-pocket pants allow. Atkins is throwing mud as he speeds to us. “Y’all are nuts,” he says with a laugh as we climb into the vehicle. I pour water out of a boot. “The twister went right around us, though.”

As Atkins drives, listening to the radio, we pass uprooted cottonwoods and an irrigation pivot that’s been twisted into a heap of scrap metal. The tornado had picked it up and slammed it into the soil while we were sneaking up on the gobbler.

As Atkins drives, listening to the radio, we pass uprooted cottonwoods and an irrigation pivot that's been twisted into a heap of scrap metal.

“There she is up ahead,” ­Atkins says. Sure enough, a towering funnel cloud is creeping across the prairie. It’s as captivating as it is frightening, and I can understand why people feel compelled to chase them. Just like that, it dissipates into sunshine and a rainbow. We’ve broken some tornado safety rules, but those rules weren’t written with turkey ­hunters in mind.

Atkins asks if we want to run back to the hotel for a change of clothes. Maybe later. Right now, it’s spring in Nebraska—and we have more turkey tags to fill.

Read Next: 4 Turkey Hunting Tactics

PRAIRIE RINGERS

Sound carries a long way in open country, and Merriam’s gobblers will come to a call from notoriously long distances. Use your standby yelps and clucks for hunting in the woods and calling toms that final 100 yards. But when you’re trying to strike midday birds, err on the side of loud and obnoxious. And when a gobbler answers, look immediately for a place to sit. I always carry these three calls out West.article

Ready to take the plunge and open up your own business? Researchers say that after nailing down the perfect business plan an entrepreneur’s second move should be finding the perfect location.

Continue Reading Below

And bigger isn’t always better when choosing a city, notes WalletHub’s list of 2018’s best and worst small cites to launch a business. Often times, a city with a smaller population can offer a business owner a greater chance of success with lower overhead costs, stronger relationships with customers and the “potential to become a big fish in a little pond.”

Personal finance website WalletHub analyzed data of more than 1,200 small-sized cities using 18 metrics, from investor access to labor costs, to determine this year’s best and worst small cities to grow a business.

Here are 2018's top 20 small cities in which to start a business:

1. Holland, Michigan

2. St. George, Utah

Advertisement

3. Aberdeen, South Dakota

4. Wilson, North Carolina

5. Cheyenn, Wyoming

6. Clearfield, Utah

7. Ogden, Utah

8. Bismarck, North Carolina

9. Bozeman, Montana

10. Fort Myers, Florida

11. Enid, Oklahoma

12. Bountiful, Utah

13. Salisbury, North Carolina

14. Springville, Utah

15. Sanford, North Carolina

16. Brighton, New York

17, Brighton, New York

18. LaGrange, Georgia

19. Midvale, Utah

20. Bowling Green, Kentucky

Here are 2018's 10 worst small cities in which to start a business:

1. Suisun City, California

2. Eastvale, California

3. Saratoga, California

4. Belmont, California

5. Crofton, California

6. Norco, California

7. Pacifica, California

8. Westfield, New Jersey

9. Potomac, Maryland

10. Wilmette, IllinoisIt started as simple Maine Lobster love fest — and turned into a multi-million dollar small business success story.

Continue Reading Below

“My cousin Sabin and I were both from Maine. We grew up there and we grew up surrounded with lobster bakes,” said Cousins Main Lobster co-owner Jim Tselikis to FOX Business’ Maria Bartiromo. “We said, 'Hey, let's combine and kind of recreate our childhood with Maine lobster, bringing it to parts of the country that maybe it wasn’t as accessible or it wasn’t the same quality we had.”

So that’s when Sabin and Jim came together to share their experience with the rest of the nation. They quickly rose to success after taking business on the road with a single-food truck in Los Angeles and an appearance on “Shark Tank.”

“For the last four or five years we’ve been scaling with a franchise model,” said Tselikis.

Cousins Maine Lobster now has 19 locations across the U.S. and is moving into the restaurant scene.

Advertisement

“The beauty of the truck is that you can go to the market — as long as you find the people you have an excellent product and great service — you can tend to do alright,” he said.next

prev

A 5-year-old Michigan boy was treated to a surprise Transformers-themed party recently to mark the end of his six-week treatment for a brain tumor. The party gave Hudson Brown, who completed 30 treatments, a chance to see some of his favorite characters up close, and he even received a special video message from Mark Wahlburg.

“I hope you are doing well buddy,” Wahlburg said in the video, according to Fox 2 Detroit. “I’ve got you in my thoughts and prayers. I am down in Atlanta shooting a movie right now. Stay strong buddy, you are an inspiration to everybody. God bless you, I love you, stay strong and I look forward to meeting you in person.”

NEW MOM GIVEN MONTHS TO LIVE AFTER FINDING CANCEROUS LUMP ON FACE DURING LABOR

Brown was diagnosed with medulloblastoma back in January, and had been receiving proton-beam radiation therapy at Beaumont Hospital Royal Oak.

“He has to be sedated for each one since he is receiving treatment to both the brain and the spine,” Megan Brown, the boy’s mother, told Fox 2 Detroit. “They have to be completely still. So, daily sedation, about 45 minutes in the treatment room.”

Brown’s mom and some members of the hospital staff who helped care for him hatched the plan for his surprise last Friday. He arrived at the hospital in a yellow Bumblebee Camaro along with the Bumblebee character to ring the end of treatment bell.

“It was just amazing, just watching 20 Camaros pull up,” Brown’s mother said. “This is a chapter that’s over, the road is not done. This was a big celebration to end his chapter.”A multistate E. coli outbreak has sent at least 22 people to the hospital prompting health officials to advise consumers across the country to throw out any store-bought chopped romaine lettuce, including prepackaged salads and salad mixes. The outbreak has been traced to the Yuma, Ariz., growing region, but it is not yet pinned to a common grower, supplier, distributor or brand.

Since the outbreak began in late March, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has tallied a total of 35 infections across 11 states, including three cases of kidney failure. While no deaths related to the outbreak have been reported, symptoms of E. coli can present as diarrhea, severe stomach cramps and vomiting. It can take up to 3 to 4 days for symptoms to appear, meaning more cases may be forthcoming.

NEARLY 207M EGGS RECALLED OVER SALMONELLA FEARS

The CDC is advising retailers and restaurants to stop selling chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma region, which is home to the annual Lettuce Festival and bills itself as the “winter lettuce capital.” The Produce Marketing Association, Arizona Leafy Greens Marketing Agreement, United Fresh and Western Growers released a statement on the outbreak, and reassured consumers that nearly all romaine lettuce now being harvested and shipped throughout the U.S. is from the California growing areas.

“The leafy greens community takes the responsibility for producing fresh produce very seriously,” the statement said, in part, according to Food Safety News. “Leafy greens food-safety programs in both California and Arizona are the most rigorous in today’s produce industry. Both programs include mandatory farm food safety practices, and frequent government audits to ensure those practices are being followed.”

However, Consumer Reports is advising against consumers purchasing any romaine lettuce regardless of where it’s grown while the outbreak is ongoing, including unbagged romaine or hearts of romaine.

CHILI GROWER DEFENDS WORLD'S HOTTEST PEPPER AFTER MAN WHO ATE ONE WAS HOSPITALIZED

“Consumer Reports is making this recommendation given the potentially fatal consequences of E. coli, the fact that there are still several unknowns about this outbreak, and that no type of romaine has been ruled definitively safe by government officials,” said James E. Rogers, director of food safety research and testing at Consumer Reports. “While we are making this decision out of an abundance of caution, this warning is particularly important for vulnerable people like the elderly, pregnant women and young children.”

Over the weekend, Pennsylvania-based Fresh Foods Manufacturing announced a voluntary recall of nearly 9,000 pounds of salad products. While none of the cases reported have been linked to Fresh Food products, the company said its concerned that its romaine supplier may have been involved in the outbreak.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Residents on a suburban street all agreed to paint their homes a different colour - and say it's lifted their mood and conversation between neighbors.

The six houses have all been given a new shade - with homeowners saying it's had a visual and social impact on their well being.

They claim the makeover has sparked conversation and laughter among neighbours who previously didn't talk to each other much.

Previously the homes were a drab red brick but have now been left looking like the famous colorful homes in Tobermory, Scotland and Bristol, England.

The technicolor road has even become a talking point among the community - with passing schoolchildren stopping to choose their favorite houses.

Shades of blue, yellow, pink and red have transformed the relationships of residents - who are of different ages, races and professions.

It’s the brainchild of landlord Tash Frootko, who rents out two neighboring properties on the terraced row in Gloucester, England.

Frootko, an artist, said she wanted the buildings - built in the 1890s - to reflect the road’s diverse demographic.

Frootko convinced the whole street to take part and now every home is a different color.

She said: “I started painting the two properties I own and spoke to the neighbors who were on board with the plan.

“Within days the area was glowing and full of life as passersby stopped to marvel at the changes.

“A mom I bumped into says she has to take her little girl down the street just so she could see the colors.

“When we were stripping the walls before repainting, we discovered the original houses were multicoloured.”

The street includes students, nurses and retired pensioners with a multitude of nationalities, including Latvian and Filipino.

Student Jamie Holmes, 21, lives in one of Frootko's houses on Nettleton Road - and says it’s “brightened up a city with an unfair reputation for being dull.”

The third-year student at University of Gloucestershire added: “It has brightened up this part of town and goes against the grain in this area.

“Everyone passing by seems to comment on how nice it is and the neighbors have been chatting and enjoying a cup of tea together.

“We are hoping this trend can spread across the city center.”

Ines Green, 22, lives on the street with her mom Karen, between university terms.

But the Cardiff University biochemistry student said she couldn’t wait to return home and see the new paint job.

She said: “It's brought a new dynamic to the street and neighbors are chatty, friendly and help each other out.

“I couldn't wait to get back from university when I found out - I was so excited.

“It reminds me of Brighton where they have reinvigorated dull areas by painting the buildings.”

Karen has lived on the street for more than 25 years. She said it used to be occupied by pensioners and was “very dull.”

She added: “I lived next to them and we didn't speak for donkeys' years.

“It's a lot different because everyone on the street is smiling at one another.You can feel a real positive energy and we hope it will travel through the whole city.”

Karlis Kozlovskis has lived on the street for 16 years.

He said: "It is great for the people here and for people passing by. It's a good feeling and I'm pleased to see my neighbors smiling and I'm smiling too."From training new Marines as a sadistic drill instructor to leading a bucket of toy soldiers on a mission to move to their owner's new home, the late actor R. Lee Ermey has left his mark on a variety of shows. In fact, he raked in more than 60 credits in film and television over his 30-year career in the industry.

Fans of the actor are remembering his iconic roles after his death on April 15 at the age of 74.

Ermey slowly transformed into an actor after serving as a technical adviser on films such as "Apocalypse Now," "The Boys in Company C" and yes, even "Full Metal Jacket."

No one could play the role as Gunnery Sergeant Hartman better than him -- a Marine Corps veteran who served for 11 years, including 14 months in Vietnam. The film's director Stanley Kubrick offered Ermey the spot after seeing a demo tape of him railing at extras while tennis balls flew at him.

'FULL METAL JACKET' ACTOR R. LEE ERMEY DIES AT AGE 74



"Lee Ermey ... would spend every spare second with the dialogue coach, and he always knew his lines," Kubrick told Rolling Stone in 1987. "I suppose Lee averaged eight or nine takes. He sometimes did it in three. Because he was prepared."

The breakout role earned him a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the Golden Globes, marking the beginning of what turned out to be an impressive career. Here's a look at some of his most memorable roles on screen.

"Full Metal Jacket"

WARNING: VIDEO CONTAINS PROFANITY

Ermey was best known for his role in "Full Metal Jacket," and it originally wasn't even his. He had been brought on as a technical consultant for the 1987 film, but he had his eyes on the role of the brutal gunnery sergeant and filmed his own audition tape of him yelling out insults while tennis balls flew at him. An impressed Kubrick gave him the role.

Kubrick told Rolling Stone that 50 percent of Ermey's dialogue in the film was his own.

"In the course of hiring the marine recruits, we interviewed hundreds of guys. We lined them all up and did an improvisation of the first meeting with the drill instructor. They didn't know what he was going to say, and we could see how they reacted. Lee came up with, I don't know, 150 pages of insults," Kubrick said.

"Toy Story"

Ermey went on to voice the little green army man Sarge in the "Toy Story" films. Sarge is loyal to Woody and completes missions to spy on Andy's birthday presents, which the toy story gang sees as a threat. He's often spotted with a pair of binoculars in his hands, scoping out various scenes to instruct the toys how to proceed.

"Sarge, voiced by the late R. Lee Ermey, is based upon his character of Gunnery Sergeant Hartman from Full Metal Jacket," according to Pixar's Wiki page.

"Prefontaine"

He also played track and field coach and Nike co-founder Bill Bowerman in "Prefontaine" in 1997, starring alongside Jared Leto who played Steve Prefontaine.

The New York Times called Bowerman's storyline the film's "most interesting sidebar" in its 1997 review.

"The coach experimented with his waffle iron ... and helped devise the Nike running shoe," the newspaper explained.

"Toy Soldiers"

Ermey had several military roles throughout his career, including his 1991 role as General Kramer in "Toy Soldiers."

"'Toy Soldiers' is a crisp, suspenseful thriller well tailored to the tastes of teen-age audiences, who will doubtless appreciate such touches as the equivalent microchips found in one student's radio-contrilled airplane and the chief terrorist's detonator, which is rigged to blow up the entire school," The New York Times wrote in a 1991 review.

"Mississippi Burning"

Ermey played Mayor Tilman in the 1988 American crime thriller "Mississippi Burning."

"The mayor [is] a slick country-club type, who lectures against rabble-rousing outsiders," famed film critic Roger Ebert wrote in his 1988 review of the film. "More than any other film I’ve seen, this one gets inside the passion of race relations in America."

"Se7en"

Ermey joined Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kevin Spacey, among other stars in this 1995 crime drama. He played a police captain in the movie.

"An intensely claustrophobic, gut-wrenching thriller about two policemen’s desperate efforts to stop an ingenious serial killer whose work is inspired by the seven deadly sins, this weirdly off-kilter suspenser goes well beyond the usual police procedural or killer-on-a-rampage yarn," Variety reported in 1994.

"The Texas Chainsaw Massacre"

He was also known as Sheriff Hoyt in "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre," and according to Ermey, it was one of the best characters he's ever played.

“I love the character,” Ermey told Cinema Blend in 2006. “The beautiful thing about Sheriff Hoyt is the simple fact that he’s a sexually perverted homicidal maniac. How do you go over the top with this guy? You can just go crazy with him. Basically, I was allowed to do exactly that. Every character I’ve ever played, I always try to take him right to the edge and not allow him to fall over, but directors have a tendency to pull me back a little bit. I hate to hear ‘Less is more.’ It’s a crock of crap. I think more is more and with this character I was allowed to go just completely berserk, and that’s what I love to do.”

“The beautiful thing about Sheriff Hoyt is the simple fact that he’s a sexually perverted homicidal maniac. How do you go over the top with this guy? " - R. Lee Ermey

Hoyt is the "fatherly figure of the deranged family," FirstShowing.net reported at the time. "Ermey takes 'The Beginning' to a sick and twisted high-point with his humorous lines and deranged mind."

Fox News' Samuel Chamberlain and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Justin Bieber’s Coachella weekend escalated when he allegedly punched a man who he saw grab a woman “by the throat,” a report said.

Bieber and a friend were at a party during the California music festival Saturday when an unidentified man walked in and assaulted a woman who appeared to be the individual’s ex-girlfriend, TMZ reported. The singer and his friend stepped in and screamed at the man to let go, the gossip site stated.

Bieber “hit the man in the face and pushed him against the wall,” TMZ reported. The woman was reportedly able to get away from the man’s grip.



Coachella moments A post shared by Justin Bieber (@justinbieber) on Apr 15, 2018 at 2:54pm PDT

The La Quinta Police Department told People a woman said Bieber was “involved in this incident,” but officers did not receive witness reports or statements to confirm the singer’s involvement.

JUSTIN BIEBER'S WORST MOMENTS OF ALL TIME

“Investigating officers responded to the residence where the alleged battery occurred but were unable to locate any witnesses or evidence of a battery,” the statement obtained by People read.

The woman also declined to press charges and did not appear to have any visible injuries when police arrived.

Bieber has not commented on the incident, but posted Instagram photos of himself enjoying the festival with friends over the weekend. The singer recently made headlines after rumors he was on a break with his of his on-again-off-again girlfriend Selena Gomez.

A post shared by Justin Bieber (@justinbieber) on Apr 13, 2018 at 11:00pm PDT

Bieber attended Coachella without Gomez and was spotted by festivalgoers dancing in colorful Hawaiian shorts and shirt.article

Technology earnings are set to shed light on the broader economy. The industry may face increased regulation after Facebook apologized for the Cambridge Analytica data leak scandal.

Continue Reading Below

Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer joins FOX Business’ Neil Cavuto on “Cavuto: Coast to Coast” on Monday to discuss regulation, privacy concerns, the economy and more.

This is a developing story; check back for updates.American businesses are giving and doing more than ever before, like the hundreds of companies that have pledged bonuses, raises, new or expanded benefits, or price reductions since December, when Congress retooled the federal tax code for the first time in 30 years.

Continue Reading Below

Those responses are tremendous—they could mean a family’s first vacation or provide hope of paying down medical expenses or debt—but understand that business need not rely on unexpected windfalls before realizing the benefits of giving back.

Often, corporate generosity is regarded as a mechanism for quick publicity: buzz for bonuses, celebrity for charity. But to be transactional in charity is to miss the opportunity it presents for the bottom line and beyond, as I learned thirty years ago when a poor, elderly woman walked into her local Home Depot. Her roof was in desperate need of repair, but she had only five dollars to offer.

That singular episode, and everything we learned about corporate generosity as a consequence, changed our business. I’d even venture to say it was fundamental to its success.

This woman had no money to give and no favors to return, and we weren’t exactly flush with cash at the time, but we resolved as a company that honoring our social contract with the communities in which we operated—that to be in them required truly being a part of them—was important.

Despite our own resource limitations, we pledged to donate the supplies to match the store’s associates pledge to donate their labor. So we built her a new roof, and then we built her a deck. We installed new lighting and patched damaged walls. Together we renovated her entire home.

Advertisement

At the time, we didn’t appreciate the full scope of what was happening and all the possibility it presented for our company and its culture. But when that store became one of the top-performing in the country—and its employees wanted to come to work, and to stay, and to collaborate, and to serve with passion—we began to.

We learned that giving back in a deliberate, thoughtful way helped grow our business by making it a place that attracted and retained both talent and customers.

What happened by chance grew in time into a company-wide commitment whose breadth surprised even me sometimes, like when a federal building exploded in Oklahoma City on an April morning in 1995.

The Home Depot had two stores in the city at the time of the explosion. I was immediately concerned that our employees or their families had been affected, but couldn’t reach the manager for either store despite repeated attempts.

Unbeknownst to anyone in our corporate leadership, these two managers had loaded down company trucks with shovels, hammers, pick axes, and tarps--everything needed for a rescue operation--from their stores before racing to the scene of the devastation to aid in the emergency recovery of injured persons.

When finally we spoke, they told me they understood their actions meant they would be terminated. None of the inventory they raided could be accounted for, after all.

Quite the opposite, I told them: they were our greatest heroes. And it’s because of those two heroes that The Home Depot has been on the scene with recovery supplies in countless natural disasters and major emergency situations since.

Earlier this year, I joined as an inaugural ambassador of goBeyondProfit, a new business leader-led initiative to celebrate and encourage corporate generosity in all its various forms, because I want to share with others what we learned at The Home Depot: that giving back is as good for your business as it is for the community it serves.

Giving back can hurt, as it did when we fronted the cost of a roof 30 years ago as a humble start-up. But going beyond profit was the best business decision we ever made.

Bernard Marcus is a businessman and philanthropist. He is a co-founder of The Home Depot and serves as chairman of The Marcus Foundation.The two African-American men arrested in a Philadelphia Starbucks for trespassing have agreed to meet with the coffee chain’s CEO, Kevin Johnson.

Continue Reading Below

“I’d like to have a dialogue with them so that I can ensure that we have the opportunity to really understand the situation and show some compassion and empathy for the experience they went through,” Starbucks’ CEO Kevin Johnson told “Good Morning America” on Monday.

The Seattle-based company is “hopeful” the meeting will take place this week while Johnson is in the city, a spokesperson told FOX Business.

In a video posted last Thursday by Twitter user Melissa DePino ‏that went viral, the two men involved in the incident were sitting in the Starbucks before being escorted out of the coffee shop in handcuffs. Other patrons in the Philadelphia store can be seen defending the men, saying they did nothing wrong.

DePino wrote in her tweet that “the police were called because these men hadn’t ordered anything. They were waiting for a friend to show up, who did as they were taken out in handcuffs for doing nothing.”

In response to the incident, Johnson said the company was investigating corporate practices and will further train staff to “better know” when police assistance is needed.

Advertisement

Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross defended the actions of his officers, saying they “did absolutely nothing wrong” when responding to the 9-1-1 call for “trespassing.” Ross said employees stated that the men wanted to use the restroom, which is only available to Starbucks customers, according to company policy.

“If a business calls and they say ‘that someone is here that I no longer wish to be here in my business,’ they have a legal obligation to carry out their duties and they did just that,” Ross said in a Facebook Live video statement.

The men were later released after it was clear that Starbucks was no longer interested in pressing charges, according to Ross. He added that as an African-American male, he is “very aware of implicit bias.”

The Starbucks CEO on Monday said he would like to work with the two men to find a resolution to the incident.

“As we’re working to solve this, I’d like to invite them to join me in finding a constructive way to solve this issue,” Johnson said.James Comey’s book “A Higher Loyalty” won’t be available to purchase until Tuesday, but it's already a bestseller.

Continue Reading Below

The book, which offers a look at the former FBI director’s interactions with President Donald Trump was ranked as the #1 best-selling book on Amazon Monday morning, with interest in the book increasing after details of the book’s content were leaked.

Comey said that Trump was “morally unfit” to be president in an interview with ABC News that aired Sunday night. But, even before his interview leaked, details of the book painted Trump in a less-than-flattering light.

“This president is unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values,” Comey says in the book, according to a New York Times review. “His leadership is transactional, ego driven and about personal loyalty.”

Trump has already taken to twitter to respond to Comey’s book calling him a “proven LEAKER & LIAR.”

Comey was fired by Trump last May. Comey has also been criticized by Democrats for reopening the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails just days before the 2016 presidential election.article

(Reuters) - Hedge fund manager Carl Icahn is cashing out of casino business Tropicana Entertainment Inc in a deal selling most of its properties and operations for $1.85 billion, Icahn Enterprises and the companies involved said in statements on Monday.

Continue Reading Below

The billionaire investor first acquired an interest in Las Vegas-based Tropicana in 2008 when it was in the throes of bankruptcy.

The deal announced on Monday sells six of the eight casino properties it now runs to Gaming and Leisure Properties $1.21 billion.

The casino operations will be taken over by another U.S. casino operator, Eldorado Resorts Inc <ERI.O>, which will pay the remaining $640 million and lease the properties from GLPI for an initial 15-year period.

Icahn’s firm Icahn Enterprises, which owns a majority stake in Tropicana, typically buys undervalued assets, improves their operations, and ultimately sells them at a profit.

Tropicana emerged from bankruptcy protection in 2010 under a $200 million deal backed by Icahn, and owns and operates eight casinos and resorts in Indiana, Louisiana, Missouri, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey and Aruba.

Advertisement

Icahn Enterprises said in its statement that the deal did not include the company's Aruba casino and resort in the Caribbean, which would be sold separately as a condition of closing the deal.

Eldorado owns and operates twenty properties in ten U.S. states, including Colorado, Florida, Iowa, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia.

(Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bengaluru; Editing by Shailesh Kuber and Patrick Graham)Inmates armed with homemade knives fought each other for more than seven hours inside a maximum-security prison, leaving seven of them dead in the worst U.S. prison riot in a quarter-century, officials said. An inmate who witnessed the violence told The Associated Press that bodies were "literally stacked on top of each other."

At least 17 prisoners were seriously injured as inmates fought uninterrupted before authorities regained control of Lee Correctional Institution about 3 a.m. Monday, South Carolina prisons spokesman Jeff Taillon said.

Officials didn't immediately say what sparked the violence at the prison that houses some of the state's worst and longest-serving offenders. No prison guards were hurt.

The prisoner who saw the riot exchanged messages with AP on the condition of anonymity because he is not allowed to have a cellphone and fears retribution from other inmates.

He also didn't say what started the riot but said most of the inmates are affiliated with gangs and he saw several attackers taunt a rival gang member who was badly injured.

"I just saw three dead on the sidewalk outside of my unit. One guy is still alive and breathing, but just barely," the inmate said.

The riot was the latest violence in the South Carolina prisons system, where at least 13 other inmates have been killed by fellow prisoners since the start of 2017 and was the most inmates slain in a single riot in the U.S. since nine prisoners and a guard died in 1993 at the Southern Ohio Correctional Facility, said Steve Martin, a consultant who helps the federal government monitor prison systems.

The inmate who spoke to AP said that many cell door locks were already broken before the riot and that he and other prisoners roamed around freely. Hours after the violence started, no correctional officers or medical personnel attended to the dead or dying, he said.

"It's been over two hours, but no COs (corrections officers) have responded to this unit, and no medical personnel have attempted to render any kind of aid," he wrote. "The COs never even attempted to render aid, nor quell the disturbance. They just sat in the control bubble, called the issue in, then sat on their collective asses."

South Carolina prison guards are not armed, so as long as employees aren't threatened, they typically seal off wings when there is an inmate uprising and wait for a special team of state police to arrive to try to stop the rioting.

The inmate told AP that he knew at least two of the slain men well. He said he saw an inmate trying to get up before he "started into that 'death rattle' people often hear about, but never experience firsthand."

Most of the slain inmates were stabbed with homemade knives or slashed, while the remainder appeared to have been beaten, Lee County Coroner Larry Logan said. The slain were serving anywhere from 10 years to life in prison and their crimes ranged from murder to burglary to trafficking crack cocaine. They youngest was 28 years old while the oldest was 44.

The injured inmates required medical attention outside the prison, which is located 40 miles east of Columbia.

The South Carolina Department of Corrections tweeted that the deaths happened in multiple inmate-on-inmate fights in three housing units. It began at around 7:15 p.m. Sunday.

The coroner said when he arrived it was a chaotic scene of fighting everywhere. Logan said the state-run Lee Correctional Institution, like most other South Carolina prisons, is struggling to find enough workers, but he doesn't believe anything could be done once things got that far out of control.

"If everybody has an uprising, you are always going to be understaffed," Logan said.

The maximum-security facility in Bishopville houses about 1,500 inmates. Two officers were stabbed there in 2015. More recently, an inmate held a guard hostage for 90 minutes in March and another killed a fellow prisoner in February.

The deaths at Lee are the most in any South Carolina prison in recent years. Four inmates were killed last year by a pair of prisoners at Kirkland Correctional Institution.

The riot was the latest violence in a system where 12 inmates were killed by other prisoners last year and 250 prisoners were assaulted so severely in 2016 and 2017 they had to be treated in outside hospitals, according to public records obtained by The Post and Courier of Charleston.

The 250 inmates taken to the hospital after assaults the past two years were nearly double the rate from the two years before, the newspaper reported.

Gov. Henry McMaster, meanwhile, expressed support for state prisons chief Bryan Stirling.

McMaster spokesman Brian Symmes said the governor has "complete confidence" in Stirling's ability to lead the state Department of Corrections.

___

Jeffrey Collins contributed to this report.A judge will decide whether a man convicted as a juvenile of raping a 16-year-old girl during an alcohol-fueled party should be removed from Ohio's sex offender listings, as allowed by law.

Judge Thomas Lipps scheduled a hearing Thursday in juvenile court in Steubenville in the case of former high school football player Ma'Lik Richmond.

Richmond, now 21, was convicted in 2013 of raping the West Virginia girl at a party that followed a football scrimmage the previous year. He served a one-year sentence and later rejoined the Steubenville football team. He went on to play at Youngstown State University.

After his conviction, Richmond was ordered to register his address every six months for the next 20 years. In 2014, Lipps agreed to reclassify him so that he has to register only once a year for the next decade.

Ohio law allows juveniles to request removal altogether. Richmond's public defender declined to comment ahead of the hearing. The state opposes the request.

A second juvenile convicted in the crime served a two-year sentence. His attorneys plan a similar request in the future.

The 2012 case drew international attention because of the role of social media publicizing the assault, and initial allegations of a cover-up by local authorities and frustration that more football players weren't charged, including some who witnessed the assaults.

Richmond was released from prison in January 2014 and attended colleges in West Virginia and Pennsylvania before transferring to Youngstown State in the fall of 2016 as a sophomore.

Last year, Youngstown State sidelined Richmond after getting backlash about him playing football. After Richmond sued, a settlement with the university allowed him to stay on the active roster. Richmond is currently a student and a football player, Youngstown State spokesman Ron Cole said Monday.

As that controversy played out, Richmond's father, Nathaniel Richmond, was killed in August 2017 in an unrelated confrontation when he shot a judge in a courthouse parking lot and a probation officer returned fire. The judge had been overseeing a wrongful death lawsuit the father filed against a housing authority.

___

Andrew Welsh-Huggins can be reached on Twitter at https://twitter.com/awhcolumbus.Crews searching for a family whose vehicle plunged into a rain-swollen Northern California river more than a week ago have found the sport utility vehicle and the body of a man and a girl inside it, authorities said Monday.

Searchers located the car Sunday in the Eel River and recovered the bodies of 41-year-old Sandeep Thottapilly and 9-year-old Saachi Thottapilly, the Mendocino County Sheriff's Office said in a statement.

The body of an adult female found in the river last Friday has been identified as 38-year-old Soumya Thottapilly, the statement said. The couple's 12-year-old son, Sidhhanty Thottapilly, remains missing.

A team of more than 20 searchers found the car submerged in between 4 and 6 feet (1 and 2 meters) of water, partially removed it from the river using a tow truck and then found the two bodies inside the vehicle, the sheriff's office said.

Soumya Thottapilly was found in an area that was previously covered with water from the storm-swollen river, the statement said.

The Thottapilly family went missing while traveling from Portland, Oregon, to their home in the Los Angeles suburb of Santa Clarita.

They were reported missing April 8 after failing to show up for a visit with relatives in San Jose.

A "missing" poster shared by friends and family on Facebook said their last known location was the "Klamath-Redwood National Park area."

The Klamath River and a string of state and federal redwood parks lie along U.S. 101 to the north of the location where other motorists saw the vehicle fall into the Eel River.

A powerful storm dropped 2 to 5 inches (5 to 12.7 centimeters) of rain in the region the day they went missing.In Boston, they call days like this “wicked stormy.”

In fact, there’s never been a day quite this bad in the history of the Boston Marathon.

It was the coldest April 16th here since 1881, with temperatures in the high 30’s at the start of the 122nd running of the Boston Marathon. Winds are gusting 25 to 40 miles per hour, right in the faces of the nearly 30,000 runners as they began the course in Hopkinton, Mass., swamped by sheets of driving rain.

The awful conditions make the 26.2 mile course even more challenging for participants, many wearing extra ponchos, face masks and cover-ups for the grueling journey to Boston’s Back Bay.

Known in Massachusetts as Patriots Day, Marathon Monday is typically a festive occasion. But in recent years it’s taken a much more serious and somber turn.

Sunday marked the fifth anniversary of the 2013 bombings that killed three people and injured more than 260. Survivors joined Boston Mayor Martin Walsh and Massachusetts Gov. Charlie Baker to lay wreaths at the site of the bombings on Boylston Street. At 2:49 p.m., the exact moment the first bomb exploded, the city observed a moment of silence and church bells tolled for the victims.



Because of the terror attack, Marathon Monday has become an enormous security operation. It takes six months of planning and involves 8,000 public safety personnel. Bomb sniffing dogs work their way through the crowds and spectators are urged not to bring backpacks. Streets are closed surrounding the finish line and most of the Back Bay is locked down.



But the tragedy of the bombings has inspired celebrations of strength. Building on “Boston Strong” the city has created “Boston One Day,” asking residents to perform random acts of kindness. It reaffirms the message of 8-year old Martin Richard, the youngest victim of the attack, who once held a hand-written sign reading “no more hurting people - Peace.”



Five years ago today Boston was in virtual lockdown, law enforcement still working to determine who carried out the fatal attacks. Authorities would later identify two brothers from nearby Cambridge, Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, as the suspects.

While attempting to flee the area, they also shot and killed Massachusetts Institute of Technology police officer Sean Collier while trying to steal his gun. After carjacking a Chinese immigrant who escaped and alerted authorities, the Tsarnaevs were tracked down to the suburban Boston city of Watertown where they engaged in a shootout with police. Tamerlan Tsarnaev was killed and his younger brother was apprehended the next day.

Dzhokhar Tsarnaev was convicted in federal court and sentenced to death. His case remains under appeal and his execution has not yet been scheduled.

next

prev

Brazil's public security minister says that investigators suspect that police-linked militias were responsible for killing a Rio de Janeiro city councilwoman who was a prominent social activist.

Marielle Franco and her driver were killed March 14. She had often criticized police brutality and was sharply critical of the decision to put the military in charge of Rio's security forces.

Public Security Minister Raul Jungmann told CBN radio on Monday that "the most probable hypothesis ... is that this crime is very probably the work of Rio de Janeiro's militias."

He was referring to armed groups of current and former police officers who vie with criminal gangs for control of Rio's poor communities and who have been accused of summary executions.next

prev

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and French President Emmanuel Macron have discussed a renewed economic partnership to boost growth, jobs and investments in their two countries.

In a joint news conference in Paris, Trudeau praised the "benefits" of a trade deal between Canada and the European Union that came largely into effect last September.

Trudeau said "we already see the results" of the new trade rules, called the Canada-European Union Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement Implementation Act (CETA).

Canadian imports from France have increased 4 percent last year and Canadian investments in France have jumped 23 percent, he said.

Trudeau insists the deal included rules to protect workers' rights and the environment, but CETA had triggered many protests across Europe, with critics arguing it weakens European labor laws.An American pastor on Monday denied accusations that he aided terror groups or spied against Turkey, speaking at the beginning of his trial in a case that has strained ties between Turkey and the United States.

Andrew Craig Brunson, a 50-year-old evangelical pastor from North Carolina, faces up to 35 years in prison on charges of "committing crimes on behalf of terror groups without being a member" and "espionage."

Brunson was arrested in the aftermath of a 2016 coup attempt for alleged links to the outlawed Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, as well as a network led by U.S.-based Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, who is blamed by Turkey for the coup attempt.

He served as pastor of Izmir Resurrection Church, a small Protestant congregation, and has lived in Turkey for 23 years. Brunson denies any wrongdoing.

"I don't accept any of the allegations or accusations," the state-run Anadolu Agency quoted Brunson as telling the court in the town of Aliaga, some 60 kilometers (38 miles) north of the Aegean coastal city of Izmir.

"I did not engage in any illegal activity. I had no relations with anyone engaged in such activity," Brunson said. "I am a Christian pastor. I did not join an Islamic movement. Their aims and mine are different."

The agency said the pastor delivered his defense statement in Turkish.

North Carolina Senator Thom Tillis and Sam Brownback, U.S. ambassador-at-large for religious freedoms, observed the trial.

"The Administration is deeply concerned about this case," Brownback told reporters outside the courthouse. "We completely believe (that) Andrew Brunson is innocent. We are hopeful (that) the judicial system will find that."

He added: "You'll continue to see very high-level U.S. government interest in this until he is released.

Prosecutors are seeking a 15-year prison sentence for alleged crimes committed in the name of Gulen's group and the PKK. They want the pastor to serve another 20 years if he is found guilty of obtaining state secrets for political and military spying purposes using his religious work as cover.

The indictment — based on the testimony of witnesses, including three secret ones, and digital evidence — claims the pastor worked to convert Kurds to Christianity to sow discord.

U.S. officials have repeatedly called for Brunson's release, and President Donald Trump has asked Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to have his government "expeditiously" return the pastor to the U.S.

Erdogan fired back at Washington, demanding that the U.S. return Gulen to Turkey.

"Give him (Gulen) to us, and we will try (Brunson) and return him," Erdogan said last year.

Gulen, who lives in Pennsylvania, has denied involvement in the coup.

Brunson's lawyer, Ismail Cem Halavurt, told The Associated Press he expected the pastor's acquittal, arguing Sunday that the "weak" indictment lacked sufficient evidence to make the case hold up in court.

__

Associated Press Writer Suzan Fraser contributed from Ankara, Turkey.Horrified tourists watched as a man’s body washed ashore at a popular Mexican beach resort this weekend, the latest -- and most visible -- example of the country's soaring murder rate.

The body was reported at Acapulco’s Caletilla Beach around 11:30 a.m. Sunday, Guerrero government officials wrote on Facebook. Local residents and tourists were pictured on the beach as soldiers removed the body.

Officials eventually located the alleged gunman, who said he and the victim were fishermen arguing over drug sales when the deadly shooting happened, the government said.

The grim find comes as Mexico continues to battle skyrocketing murder rates due to its war on drug trafficking. The recent spike in violence is reportedly due to cartels fighting for territory, USA Today reported.

Two people were killed in late March in Acapulco after shots were fired during a car robbery, Reuters reported. Dozens of people also fled a Good Friday procession that day.

In Cancun, another popular spring break destination on Mexico’s east coast, 14 people were killed and five were injured within 36 hours last week, Noticaribe reported. The deaths occurred in six separate incidents, with homicides in Cancun totaling more than 100.

Mexico is already on track to beat the record 30,000 homicides recorded last year.next

prev

Supporters of Turkey's main opposition party have staged sit-in demonstrations across Turkey to protest the state of emergency that was declared after a coup attempt in 2016.

The demonstrations held Monday in all of Turkey's 81 provinces were organized as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's government prepares this week to extend the state of emergency for a seventh time.

The opposition Republican People's Party, known as CHP, accuses the government of misusing its emergency powers to bypass parliament, erode democracy and to go after government critics.

The Turkish government insists the unusual powers it acquires during a state of emergency are needed to deal with ongoing security threats.

In Istanbul, hundreds of CHP supporters staged a protest on a street near Taksim Square after police blocked their access to the city's main square.Basketball Hall of Famer Hal Greer has died, the NBA announced Monday. He was 81.

Greer played 15 seasons with the Philadelphia 76ers and Syracuse Nationals from 1958 to 1973. He was named an All-Star 10 consecutive times from 1961 to 1970 and won the game’s MVP in 1968 after he scored 21 points on 8-of-8 shooting, including 19 in one quarter.

Greer helped the 76ers win an NBA championship in 1967 – the franchise’s first since the team moved from Syracuse to Philadelphia prior to the start of the 1963-64 season.

The Huntington, W.Va. native is widely considered to be the third best guard of the 1960s behind Oscar Robertson and Jerry West, despite never making an All-NBA First Team selection.

Over the course of his career, Greer averaged 19.2 points, 5 rebounds and 4 assists in 1,122 games. He is the 76ers’ all-time leader in points, field goals, field goals attempted, games and minutes played. He was also the first player to have his number retired by the organization.

Greer was elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1982 alongside Slater Martin, Frank Ramsey, Willie Reed, Clarence Gaines and Ava Duer.

“In addition to his historic contributions on the court, Greer will forever be remembered as a true gentleman who used the tremendous platform of basketball to uplift and inspire others,” the 76ers said in a statement.

The organization plans to honor Greer ahead of Game 2 of its first-round matchup against the Miami Heat later Monday.The father of the only girl player in a New Hampshire youth baseball league said he learned that two coaches talked about beaning his 11-year-old daughter in hopes to intimidate her so that she would stop playing, Fosters.com reported.

Dan Klein, the father, told the paper that he was alerted about the alleged conversation that took place during a draft meeting where players get assigned to a team. The coaches talked about drilling her in the head during practice, Klein said.

He said he found out about the threat from two coaches who were at the draft meeting where his daughter was selected last.

Durham police said they are determining if an investigation is warranted. Oyster River Youth Association officials said the organization is also investigating.

Klein told the paper that his daughter played in the league since T-ball in 2012.

Klein said he did not reach out to police and is not necessarily looking for any penalties for the coaches in question.

“I hope that this sort of thing doesn’t happen again, and that kids will be protected from this sort of language and be safe,” he said.The Philadelphia Eagles released cornerback Daryl Worley hours after he was arrested by local police, the team announced Sunday.

According to Philly.com, Worley was found passed out in his car near the team's practice facility in South Philadelphia. The report said Worley was "in possession of a gun" when police found him, and said officers used a Taser on the 23-year-old Worley when he became combative.

Worley's arrest was first reported by the NFL Network.

The Eagles initially said they were "gathering more information" about the matter before later announcing that he was cut.

The defending Super Bowl champions acquired Worley from the Carolina Panthers last month in exchange for wide receiver Torrey Smith. Worley started 25 games in his two seasons with the Panthers.

A Philadelphia native, Worley played college football at West Virginia. In 2014, he pleaded no contest to misdemeanor assault and was given a six-month suspended sentence after getting into an altercation with a woman outside a nightclub. Worley claimed that he was defending his girlfriend.

"It was a simple situation where it was wrong place at the wrong time. There [was] nothing malicious about the incident,” Worley told reporters after the Panthers selected him in the third round of the 2016 NFL Draft. "I did my due diligence as far as the court required me, and honestly, it is just behind me in the past. It is expunged from my record, and I am looking to move forward. Nothing like that is ever going to be a problem heading forward."

Click for more from Philly.com.A pair of Alabama firefighters went above and beyond to help an elderly veteran who was suffering from chest pains Saturday.

The Birmingham Fire and Rescue Service Department said in a Facebook post that Rescue Unit 25 responded to the home of a 30-year military veteran in Birmingham who reported chest pains while he was mowing his lawn.

After transporting the man to the hospital, Firefighter/Paramedic Tommy Carter and Firefighter Timothy Kennedy decided to head back to the home to finish up the yardwork the veteran started.

"I could tell that he was a kind, gentle, genuine person, and sometimes you meet people like that during this job and they touch your heart," Carter told WBRC. "That makes the decision even easier when you meet someone that has that kind of personality."

BLACK BEAR CUBS RESCUED BY VIRGINIA TROOPER AFTER MOTHER KILLED IN CRASH

The rescuers made sure the lawn was in perfect condition for the veteran when he came home.

"We commend Firefighter/Paramedic Tommy Carter and Firefighter Timothy Kennedy for your continued dedication to providing the citizens of Birmingham #ExcellenceThroughService," the rescue service said in a Facebook post.article

U.S. stocks were broadly higher in midday trading Monday, adding to the market's gains last week. Technology companies, industrial firms and health care stocks accounted for much of the rally. Investors were weighing the latest company earnings and deal news. Oil prices were pulling back after surging last week ahead of the U.S.-led missile attack on Syria's chemical weapons program.

Continue Reading Below

KEEPING SCORE: The S&P 500 index rose 18 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,675 as of 12:37 p.m. Eastern Time. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 194 points, or 0.8 percent, to 24,554. The Nasdaq added 43 points, or 0.6 percent, to 7,149. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks picked up 10 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,560.

THE QUOTE: "What we have going on is a little bit of a relief rally," said Erik Davidson, chief investment officer for Wells Fargo Private Bank. "The whole Syria situation could have gone a lot worse."

EYE ON EARNINGS: It's report card time for corporate America the next few weeks. Wall Street is forecasting the strongest growth in seven years for S&P 500 companies, and the hope has been that healthy profit reports will steady the market following a rough couple of months.

ICAHN'S BET: Carl Icahn's company has struck a roughly $1.85 billion deal that would fuse the gambling and hotel operations of Tropicana Entertainment to Eldorado Resorts Inc. Tropicana vaulted 27 percent to $69.85. Eldorado jumped 17.6 percent to $42.

WAY TO DELIVER: Domino's rose 1.4 percent to $233.43 after the pizza chain said that it will now deliver to the great outdoors, which has been bringing pizzas to doorsteps for more than half a century, will now deliver to beaches, parks and other outdoor spots.

Advertisement

KEEP ON TRUCKIN: Investors welcomed J.B. Hunt Transport Services' latest quarterly results. The transportation company said shipping volumes grew in the first quarter and rates increased. Its shares climbed 6.5 percent to $120.12.

C-SUITE SHAKEUP: Shares in WPP, the world's largest ad agency, fell 5.6 percent to $79.76 after its CEO, Martin Sorrell, resigned over an investigation into personal misconduct. Analysts say his departure could leave the company he founded three decades ago rudderless, but could also see parts sold off for higher value.

ENERGY: Oil prices fell back from spikes last week on fears over an escalation of strife in the Middle East. Benchmark U.S. crude declined 94 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $66.45 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, slid 93 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $71.65 per barrel.

BOND YIELDS: Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.83 percent from 2.83 percent late Friday.

CURRENCIES: The dollar fell to 107.18 yen from 107.41 yen on Friday. The euro strengthened to $1.2375 from $1.2334.

OVERSEAS: In Europe, Germany's DAX slid 0.4 percent, while the CAC 40 in France was essentially flat. The FTSE 100 in Britain dropped 0.9 percent. Earlier in Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 index rose 0.3 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 1.6 percent. South Korea's Kospi edged 0.1 percent higher. Australia's S&P ASX 200 picked up 0.2 percent.article

Allegiant Air shares continue to fall in the aftermath of a news report that is raising serious safety questions about the low-cost carrier.

Continue Reading Below

Allegiant is defending its safety and says the report by CBS News' "60 Minutes" tells a "false narrative" about the airline. Investors, however, fear that the negative publicity will cause travelers to avoid Allegiant, which has a fleet including many older planes that typically require more maintenance.

"60 Minutes" reported Sunday night that between January 2016 and October 2017, the Las Vegas-based airline experienced more than 100 serious mechanical incidents, including aborted takeoffs, loss of cabin pressure, and emergency landings.

CBS said that detailed reports from the Federal Aviation Administration indicated that Allegiant flights were three-and-a-half times more likely to suffer an in-flight breakdown than flights operated by American, United, Delta, JetBlue or Spirit. The report also aired a long-running accusation by the Teamsters union local representing Allegiant pilots that the airline discourages pilots from reporting mechanical problems with planes.

Allegiant issued a statement by Eric Gust, vice president of operations, charging that the CBS story told a "false narrative" about Allegiant and the FAA. He said the airline complies with all FAA requirements and takes part in many voluntary safety programs and is subject to "rigorous oversight" by the FAA.

"To suggest that Allegiant would engage in the practice of asking team members to violate company and regulatory obligations is offensive and defamatory," Gust said.

Advertisement

Shares of parent company Allegiant Travel Co. fell $3.45, or 2.3 percent, to $147.60 in midday trading Monday. They dropped 8.6 percent on Friday in anticipation of a damaging news report.

Allegiant buys used planes to keep costs down. As of Feb. 2, Allegiant operated 37 McDonnell-Douglas MD-80 planes and 53 Airbus A320 jets. It is phasing out the MD-80s, which burn far more fuel than new planes. Allegiant's used planes range between 11 and 32 years old, according to a company regulatory filing.

The CBS report updated reporting by the Tampa Bay Times, which said in 2015 that Allegiant planes were four more times than those of other U.S. airlines to make an unplanned landing because of mechanical problems. None of those incidents led to enforcement action from the FAA.

The FAA on Monday released a letter in which associate administrator of safety Ali Bahrami defended the agency's performance by pointing to the lack of a fatal crash involving a U.S. airline since 2009.

The FAA increased its monitoring of Allegiant in 2015 because of labor tension with its pilots. In 2016, the agency moved up a routine review of the airline by two years after a series of aborted takeoffs and other safety incidents. FAA officials took no enforcement action against Allegiant and said they were satisfied that the airline was addressing problems found by inspectors.

Allegiant executives termed the FAA's 2016 findings "minor" and hailed the report as evidence of the airline's safety.article

The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):

Continue Reading Below

11:45 a.m.

Major U.S. stock indexes are moving higher in midday trading as the market adds to its gains from last week.

Technology and health care companies accounted for much of the rally on Monday.

Microsoft rose 1 percent and Merck & Co. added 2.5 percent.

Truck and engine maker Navistar jumped 8.8 percent after Reuters reported that Volkswagen might buy the company.

Advertisement

Advertising conglomerate WPP sank 5.7 percent after Martin Sorrell said he would step down as CEO.

The S&P 500 index rose 17 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,673.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 192 points, or 0.8 percent, to 24,557. The Nasdaq composite climbed 32 points, or 0.5 percent, to 7,139.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.84 percent.

___

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening broadly higher on Wall Street as technology and health care stocks post solid gains.

Drugmaker Merck & Co. jumped 3 percent early Monday and Microsoft rose 1 percent.

Truck and engine maker Navistar rose 3.3 percent after Reuters reported that Volkswagen might buy the company.

Advertising conglomerate WPP sank 5.3 percent after Martin Sorrell said he would step down as CEO.

The S&P 500 index rose 12 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,668.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 157 points, or 0.6 percent, to 24,517. The Nasdaq composite climbed 27 points, or 0.4 percent, to 7,133.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.85 percent.article

Global stock markets were stable and the price of oil fell Monday as investors seemed convinced that U.S.-led air strikes on Syria would not escalate but remained cautious about tensions with Russia.

Continue Reading Below

KEEPING SCORE: Germany's DAX was flat at 12,440, while the CAC 40 in France was down 0.1 percent at 5,309. The FTSE 100 in Britain dropped 0.4 percent to 7,230. Futures for the S&P 500 and Dow Jones industrial average climbed 0.6 percent, pointing to early gains on Wall Street.

ASIA'S DAY: Japan's Nikkei 225 index rose 0.3 percent to 21,835.53, but Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 1.6 percent to 30,315.59 and the Shanghai Composite index sank 1.5 percent to 3,110.65. South Korea's Kospi edged 0.1 percent higher to 2,457.49 and Australia's S&P ASX 200 picked up 0.2 percent to 5,841.30. Shares fell in Taiwan and Singapore and rose in Indonesia.

MIDDLE EAST: The leaders of Russia, Iran and the Hezbollah group in Lebanon said Sunday that Western airstrikes on their ally Syria, targeting its chemical weapons program, have complicated prospects for a political settlement to the country's seven-year conflict. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump on Sunday defended his use of the phrase "Mission Accomplished" to describe the U.S.-led missile attack, while his aides stressed continuing U.S. troop involvement and plans for new economic sanctions against Russia for enabling the government of Bashar Assad.

ANALYST VIEWPOINT: "The markets are taking the surgical strike at the heart of Syria's chemical weapon program in stride as traders had priced in this outcome with a high degree of probability," Stephen Innes of OANDA said in a commentary. He added: "With trade war and now Syria fatigue likely to set in, however, it's best not to get too comfortable at this point as market risk sentiment swings will remain large this week."

ENERGY: Oil prices fell back from spikes last week on fears over an escalation of strife in the Middle East, with U.S. benchmark crude falling 72 cents to $66.67 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, which is used to price international oils, fell 81 cents to $71.77 per barrel.

Advertisement

CHINA TRADE: The Trump administration on Friday targeted China and five other countries including allies Japan and South Korea for special monitoring for what the administration says are practices that are worsening America's trade deficit. But the impact on financial markets in Asia was limited as it comes at a time of even harsher threats of U.S. penalty tariffs on China and other nations. The U.S. government is also expected to announce new sanctions against Russia over its involvement in Syria.

CHINA ECONOMY: Chinese shares declined ahead of the release of economic growth data that are expected to show the economy overshooting the official target to sustain a 6.8 percent annual pace in the first quarter of the year. Good news could lead regulators to tighten monetary policy, hurting share prices. Tuesday's report of monthly figures for March, the first since the lunar new year holidays, will provide fresh insights into conditions across the world's No. 2 economy.

WPP: Shares in WPP, the world's largest ad agency, fell as much as 5.6 percent on Monday after its CEO, Martin Sorrell, resigned over an investigation into personal misconduct. Analysts say his departure could leave the company he founded three decades ago rudderless, but could also see parts sold off for higher value.

CURRENCY: The dollar was trading at 107.23 yen, down from 107.36 yen late Friday. The euro edged higher, to $1.2364 from $1.2333.article

Shares in WPP, the world's biggest advertising company, have fallen as much as 5.6 percent amid speculation it will be broken up after the resignation of CEO Martin Sorrell.

Continue Reading Below

Sorrell, who built WPP into a conglomerate during his 33 years at the helm, stepped down after an investigation into allegations he misused company assets. He denies any wrongdoing.

Liberum analyst Ian Whittaker says Sorrell was the "glue that bound much of WPP together," and the company may now look to sell its market research and PR divisions. He says there'll also be speculation about whether WPP will sell stakes in associated businesses, as it did with its ownership in Japanese ad firm Asastu-DK.

The resignation Saturday of WPP's 73-year-old founder comes as the advertising industry faces pressure from online marketing.article

Netflix Inc. reported a “beautiful quarter” in January that pushed its market cap past $100 billion for the first time, but that success thrust subscriber-growth expectations even higher for the quarter Netflix will report after the bell on Monday.

Continue Reading Below

The streaming giant handily beat analyst expectations for subscriber growth in the fourth quarter, adding more than eight million users compared with expectations of 6 million, according to FactSet. Netflix NFLX, +0.78% stock has continued to demolish records since, setting new highs in dozens of sessions in February, March and April.

In the first quarter, analysts model the company adding 5 million new international subscribers and 1.5 million U.S. subscribers, according to FactSet, which would add up to more than Netflix’s guidance of 6.35 million overall additions. In the same period last year, Netflix added 3.5 million international subscribers and 1.4 million U.S. members.; before Netflix’s blowout fourth quarter and first-quarter forecast, analysts were expecting fewer than 5 million new subscribers.

While analysts have high hopes for quarterly subscriber additions, the first quarter is typically slower for Netflix, says Scott Freeze of chief investment officer of Sabretooth Financial, adding that nothing has happened during the quarter that makes his team believe the company is having specific issues. Sabretooth’s largest stock holding is Netflix, at about 10% of the company’s portfolio.

“The real crux is international subscriber growth for us when you’re trading at such a rich valuation from a revenue to price standpoint,” Freeze said. “From our standpoint, it’s still undervalued.”

Freeze and his team will be looking out for any guidance the company’s executives offer on international subscriptions, especially since it was slowing down on the content creation side and is not showing its programming at the Cannes Film Festival this year.

Advertisement

See also: Here’s how to break down the billions Netflix spends on original movies and shows

Deutche Bank released some details about its quarterly Netflix traffic report early Friday. In a note to clients analyst Bryan Kraft wrote that Netflix’s current guidance of 6.4 million new members is “conservative by up to one million subscribers world-wide.”

In a note to clients this week, Cowen & Co. analyst John Blackledge pointed to the weaker-than-expected Olympic TV ratings as potentially helping, or at least not hurting, subscriber growth. Blackledge rates Netflix a buy with a $325 price target.

What to expect

Earnings: Analysts on average model Netflix earnings of 63 cents a share and the company has issued guidance for the same per-share figure, according to FactSet. Contributors to Estimize, which crowdsources estimates from analysts, fund managers and academics, predict earnings of 65 cents a share, on average.

Revenue: In the first quarter, analysts polled by FactSet expect sales of $3.69 billion, which will be split nearly evenly between U.S. streaming of $1.8 billion and international streaming of $1.77 billion; analysts predict DVD-by-mail revenue of $99 million. Estimize contributors forecast revenue of $3.69 billion.

Stock movement: As the broad market has had a choppy year with the benchmark S&P 500 index SPX, -0.29% dropping nearly 1%, Netflix stock has been on a rampage in gaining 61%.

Of the 48 analysts that cover Netflix, 27 rate the company the equivalent of a buy, 17 are neutral, and four have a sell rating. The average price target is $295.21, representing downside of 5.3% from Friday’s closing price of $311.64.

Read: These are the DVDs that kept the post office busiest in each of Netflix’s first 20 years

What to look for

Netflix recently made a $300 million bid for an outdoor media company in Los Angeles, Regency Outdoor Advertising, Reuters reported. If the bid succeeds, it would be the largest-to-date acquisition for the streaming company.

“Our best guess is this to promote original series in an entertainment-centric market,” wrote Raymond James analyst Justin Patterson in a note to clients this week, suggesting it’s worth parsing the earnings report for a look at the streaming giant’s marketing efforts. Patterson rates the stock the equivalent of a buy with a target price of $330.

Patterson says another thing to watch for is the company pushing its “House of Cards” series to the fall, which will coincide with the World Cup. Doing so may impact its subscriber growth in the future, which would be reflected in the executives’ guidance. But, the company didn’t take a hit during the 2014 World Cup and this year has the added benefit of being in more markets and has more local original shows.

See also: Netflix sees sharks approaching from both sides in Apple and Disney

While Netflix doesn’t conduct an earnings call with analysts, opting to instead broadcast an “interview” with a single analyst who asks questions, Stifel analyst Scott Devitt wrote in a note to clients this week there are still things investors should watch for.

Chief among them is an update on Netflix’s free cash flow and its margin outlook through 2018, though Devitt pointed out that the company did not update its 2017 outlook during the call in the same period last year. Devitt, who has a hold on Netflix with a $325 price target, also wrote that investors should pay close attention to the company’s deals with telecom and entertainment companies, as well as Netflix’s India and Brazil performance.Reba brought the crowd at the 2018 ACM Awards to their feet when she donned her infamous red dress from 25 years ago.

The ACM host made headlines in 1993 for the revealing red dress she wore to the CMA Awards that year. While the red hot number may not seem risqué today in a world of leotards and foam fingers, Reba's infamous dress was quite shocking in the early '90s.

"I got more press off that dress than if I’d won Entertainer of the Year,"she said in an interview at the time.

""THE WORLD HAS BEEN SHOOK REBA MCENTIRE IS WEARING THE INFAMOUS RED DRESS FROM 1993 HOLY SHOOT," one fan wrote on Twitter.

Another said, "! Wait is that the famous red dress??!"

McEntire was joined onstage by Kelly Clarkson as part of the ACM's efforts to honor moments in country music from 25-years-ago.

The dress has been on display at the Country Music Hall of Fame but Reba must have called in some favors as she confirmed the dress she wore Sunday night was the red dress.

"It fit, [I'm] really pleased," McEntire told ET.A list of winners from the 2018 ACM Awards:

Entertainer of the Year: Jason Aldean

Female Vocalist of the Year: Miranda Lambert

Male Vocalist of the Year: Chris Stapleton

Song of the Year: "Tin Man" by Miranda Lambert (songwriters: Jack Ingram, Miranda Lambert, Jon Randall)

Album of the Year: "From a Room: Volume 1" by Chris Stapleton

Vocal Duo of the Year: Brothers Osbourne

Vocal Group of the Year: Old Dominion

New Male Vocalist of the Year: Brett Young

New Female Vocalist of the Year: Lauren Alaina

New Vocal Duo or Group of the Year: Midland

Songwriter of the Year: Rhett Akins

Video of the Year: "It Ain't My Fault" by Brothers Osbourne

Vocal Event of the Year: "The Fighter" by Keith Urban featuring Carrie UnderwoodJason Aldean took home the biggest honor at ACM Awards on Sunday night for Entertainer of the Year. The show marked country music's major return to Las Vegas six months after a lone gunman killed 58 people at a country music festival in Sin City in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.

Aldean, who was onstage when the gunshots started, admitted it was a "rough year" after he accepted the coveted award for the third consecutive year at the end of the night.

"It's been a rough year and I just want to say thanks to everybody that reached out to us, that showed us love and support, over the last six months," Aldean said. "It meant the world to us. To my Route 91 people -- you guys are in my hearts always. I love you guys and we love Las Vegas. Vegas strong baby!"

At the opening of the show, Aldean was joined by a few of his fellow artists to explain that while the night will pay tribute to the victims, it will focus on the unifying and healing power of music.

After the short intro, host Reba McEntire quickly fired up the crowd with a slew of jokes that left no artist safe from her tongue-and-cheek opening.

Commenting on the previous year's hosts, Luke Bryan and Dierks Bentley, McEntire quipped, "I guess they just found out it only takes one woman to do the job of two men."

The "Fancy" singer also pointed out that only men are nominated for Entertainer of the Year.

"Five men no women...looks like single's night at the Holiday Inn," she told a cheering crowd.

Despite McEntire's complaints, a female singer took home the first award; Miranda Lambert won Song of the Year for "Tin Man."

"Thank you, guys, so much for sharing my broken heart with me," Lambert said onstage, standing with "Tin Man" co-writers Jack Ingram and Jon Randall. It was a tense moment as Lambert thanked the crowd including her ex-husband Blake Shelton and his new girlfriend Gwen Stefani as "Tin Man" was inspired by her divorce from Shelton.

Lambert made history again when she upheld her record for the most consecutive wins for Female Vocalist of the Year. She also surpassed Brooks and Dunn as the most decorated act in ACM history with 32 wins.

Performers for the night included Luke Bryan, Kenny Chesney, Florida Georgia Line, Toby Keith, Alan Jackson, Lady Antebellum, Blake Shelton, Keith Urban, Miranda Lambert, Little Big Town, Thomas Rhett, and Maren Morris.

Carrie Underwood's highly-anticipated performance of her new song "Cry Pretty" was her first television appearance after injuring her face and wrist last year due to a fall at her home.

Following the performance, she immediately won vocal event of the year for the dance-infused country song, "The Fighter," with Keith Urban.

"Thank you for having me," Underwood said to Urban onstage. "I am still kind of shaking right now," she added, appearing teary-eyed.

Chris Stapleton, who won Album and Male Vocalist of the Year, was the top nominee with eight. However, he was unable to attend the show because as McEntire announced after his first win, he welcomed twin boys with wife Morgan seemingly during the show.

The longest-running No. 1 song of all-time on the country charts, Sam Hunt's "Body Like a Back Road," won single record of the year at the ACMs; Hunt didn't attend the show.

Little Big Town sang Elton John's "Rocket Man" in celebration of the icon's new album, "Restoration," which features country singers covering his songs. Kane Brown and Lauren Alaina were impressive when they sang their duet, "What Ifs." Kenny Chesney, Toby Keith, Kelsea Ballerini, Alan Jackson, Lady Antebellum and Dierks Bentley also performed.

Old Dominion won vocal group of the year, besting Little Big Town and Lady Antebellum.

"This is heavy in a lot of ways," lead singer Matthew Ramsey said, holding the trophy in his hand.

"We're so lucky. Look at us, look at us!" he said about his bandmates, all dressed in trendy suits. "We look good. We feel good. We're friends. And we're having a ball.

"Thank you for letting us make music."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Blake Shelton and Gwen Stefani had a low-key date night at the 53rd Annual Academy of Country Music Awards on Sunday, and the celeb couple couldn't have been cuter.

Shelton and Stefani skipped the red carpet at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas, but the pair looked as classy as ever as they sat front and center in the auditorium.

Shelton rocked a grey blazer and black button-down shirt, which he of course paired with some nice denim jeans, while Stefani stunned in a short crimson dress with black knee-high boots, with her long straight blonde locks cascading over her shoulders.

Luke Bryan Says Blake Shelton Should Marry Gwen Stefani ASAP! (Exclusive)

During the show, the country crooner took the stage for a performance of his single "I Lived It," as his lady love stared up at him and adorably sang along to the romantic tune, which Shelton appeared to be singing directly down toward her.

She was just as enthusiastic as his number came to a close, jumping to her feet and beaming as she gave him a standing ovation.

The high-profile twosome nabbed plenty of screen time throughout the show, as the ACM cameras cut to the couple repeatedly, starting when host Reba McEntire poked fun at Shelton and former ACM hosts Luke Bryan and Dierks Bentley.

Gwen Stefani Addresses Rumors That She and Blake Shelton Are Getting Married

"This year I'm following some guys who have done such a great job as host, and before that, Luke and Blake," McEntire said, as the guys cheered from the audience. "I guess they finally figured out it only takes one woman to do the job of two men."

Immediately after McEntire's brilliant jab, cameras cut to Shelton's ex-wife, Miranda Lambert, who laughed and cheered the country queen on.

Although the joke also got a standing ovation from Bryan, Bentley, Shelton and Stefani, who applauded McEntire's undeniable dominance as the greatest Academy of Country Music Awards host ever.

Gwen Stefani Enjoys ‘Spring Break’ With Her Kids in Blake Shelton’s Home State of Oklahoma: Pics!

Throughout the night, Shelton and Stefani appeared to be having a wonderful time, and fans couldn't get over just how regal they looked together.

"The King and his Queen are in the house," one fan posted to Twitter as the show kicked off, as another referred to the couple as simply "royalty."'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) said Monday that he would "expect there to be a criminal referral" after the Department of Justice inspector general's report about Andrew McCabe misleading investigators about the FBI's probe of the Clinton Foundation.

The bombshell report discusses how the agency's former deputy director authorized an information leak about the probe to the Wall Street Journal, and then misled investigators about the leak soon after.

"If I were to make a prediction, I would expect there to be a criminal referral in this matter," Ratcliffe said. "I would expect that Andrew McCabe will be facing the same types of charges that Michael Flynn, Rick Gates and George Papadopoulos are facing."

"This is the Department of Justice investigating itself and finding misconduct on not one, not two, not three, but four different occasions -- some of those under oath," Ratcliffe added.

The report states, "We concluded that McCabe’s decision to confirm the existence of the [Clinton Foundation] investigation through an anonymously sourced quote, recounting the content of a phone call with a senior department official in a manner designed to advance his personal interests at the expense of department leadership, was clearly not within the public interest exception."

Ratcliffe, a former U.S. attorney, said he believes the case will be a "prosecutable crime."

President Trump reacted to the report Friday, tweeting that "McCabe was totally controlled by [former FBI director James] Comey."

DOJ just issued the McCabe report - which is a total disaster. He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey - McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

In a statement after he was fired last month, McCabe said of the report, "This attack on my credibility is one part of a larger effort not just to slander me personally, but to taint the FBI, law enforcement and intelligence professionals more generally."

Rep. Jordan Rips McCabe's 'Scheming': 'That's What Troubles All of America'

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office 'Unjustified,' Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him''No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Alan Dershowitz on Monday slammed James Comey for leaking memos of his private discussions with President Trump.

Dershowitz, a Harvard Law professor emeritus, said the former FBI director "demeaned" the bureau by giving the memos to a law professor who then leaked the content of the memos to the New York Times.

"This is a man without courage," Dershowitz stated on "Fox & Friends."

He argued that Comey should have spoken up when Trump allegedly pressured him to end the FBI’s investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn, and also when the president allegedly demanded Comey's loyalty.

"Instead, he leaked it," Dershowitz said.

Dershowitz's comments came after Comey's interview on ABC Sunday night, ahead of the release of his tell-all book Tuesday.

Comey admitted last year that he'd given Columbia University law professor Daniel Richman his memos about conversations with Trump to have the notes leaked to the Times.

He had told officials upon admitting of the leak, "I asked a friend of mine to share the content of the memo with a reporter—I thought that might prompt the appointment of special counsel.”

Comey drafted the Crooked Hillary exoneration long before he talked to her (lied in Congress to Senator G), then based his decisions on her poll numbers. Disgruntled, he, McCabe, and the others, committed many crimes! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2018

Richman told Fox News that he had received four memos from Comey, but also said that none of them were marked as classified.

A report by The Hill had said that "more than half" the memos written were "determined to contain classified information.

"When [Comey] was in the presence of the president, he showed no courage," Dershowitz said.

He said that as someone who was the head of the FBI, Comey should have looked Trump in the eye and said, "You're wrong."

Watch more from "Fox & Friends" above.

Bongino Rips Comey for Trump 'Mob Boss' Comparison: 'He's an Embarrassment to the FBI'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of First Interview: 'It Was My Great Honor to Fire Him'

'It's Sad': Rep. Gowdy Hits Comey for 'Politicizing the FBI' With Release of New BookConway: Comey Is 'Disgruntled Ex-Employee,' Comment About Trump Marriage 'Egregious'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of First Interview: 'It Was My Great Honor to Fire Him'

Dan Bongino ripped James Comey on Monday for comparing President Trump to a mob boss, calling the former FBI director "an embarrassment to the FBI."

Comey made the comparison during an interview with ABC's George Stephanopoulos Sunday night, ahead of the release of Comey's tell-all book.

"What a disgusting thing to say," Bongino said. "Jim Comey should really slither away. He's an embarrassment to the FBI."

Bonigno further expressed his repugnance for Comey's remarks on "Fox & Friends."

"For a guy who's 6'8", Jim Comey could not have looked any smaller [Sunday] night," he said. "What a petty, small man."

In his interview with Stephanopoulos, Comey said that it was "very strange" to compare the president to a mob boss, adding, "I don't do it lightly."

Bongino said that Comey seems to "selectively" keep certain things quiet when they can be used as leverage against President Trump.

"It is clear as day [that] he can't stand Donald Trump, that this is personal," Bongino said.

Bongino also said that Comey's statement that he took notes after every meeting he had with the president was "pathetic."

Watch more of Bongino's fiery take on Comey's interview above.

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' Memoir

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

'It's Sad': Rep. Gowdy Hits Comey for 'Politicizing the FBI' With Release of New BookChristie: Comey 'Would Have Fired Me on the Spot' If I Did What He Did

Lewandowski: Comey and McCabe 'Two Liars Lying About Each Other'

Judge Andrew Napolitano said former FBI Director James Comey's comment that there's "certainly some evidence" that President Trump obstructed justice could be "dangerous" for the president.

Comey made the remark in an ABC interview that aired Sunday when he was asked about the investigation into Trump's former national security adviser Michael Flynn and Trump's alleged request that Comey "let it go."

“It would depend and — and I'm just a witness in this case, not the investigator or prosecutor, it would depend upon other things that reflected on his intent,” Comey said.

On "Fox & Friends" on Monday, Napolitano explained that most of the statements about Trump that Comey made in his new book and recent interviews are not significant because they're Comey's personal opinion.

"Why do I think that's dangerous? Because [Comey] talks to Mueller and because he knows Bob Mueller's thinking on this," Napolitano said. "We don't care if Jim Comey think the president may have obstructed justice, but if he's sending a signal that Mueller and company think that, they think it on the basis on some evidence. And that's potentially worrisome."

He said Comey is certainly talking to Mueller because he's a witness in the investigation.

"So they interact with each other all the time."

Ben Stiller, Trump Critic De Niro Reunite for 'SNL' Mueller 'Interrogation'

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' MemoirLewandowski: Comey and McCabe 'Two Liars Lying About Each Other'

Former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) said that if his and former FBI Director James Comey’s roles had been reversed in the 2016 election, Comey would have fired him.

Christie, who served as U.S. attorney for New Jersey while Comey ran the FBI, pointed to comments Comey made in recent interviews and in his new book that his decision to reopen the Hillary Clinton email probe just days before voters headed to the polls was based in part on his belief that Clinton would be elected president.

"If I had -- when I worked for Jim, if I had said to him 11 days before an election that I was going to release information that could potentially affect the election, and one of the things that influenced me was polling, he would have fired me. He would have fired me on the spot," Christie said on ABC's "This Week" on Sunday. "And it is really disconcerting to me as a guy who worked with him in form and have defended him on this air and other places over the years to see this interview and what he was saying."

Christie went on to say that Comey is a good person and a good prosecutor, but the "hubris" he showed with those comments was "extraordinary."

"It is exactly what they teach you not to do," Christie said. "But he began to believe his own press clippings. And it’s the biggest danger in public life. And the hubris that he shows in that interview is extraordinary to me. Not the guy that I worked with or worked for. And it’s sad."

Ben Stiller, Trump Critic De Niro Reunite for 'SNL' Mueller 'Interrogation'

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' MemoirMore Podcasts

· The Whip Around

In hurry? Start the day with this quick news podcast!

· Hourly Newscast

The news updated every hour!

· The Five

It’s the full primetime show. FREE!

· Perino & Stirewalt

Dana Perino & Chris Stirewalt dishing on politics news every week.

· The One w/ Greg Gutfeld

You know him. You love him. Greg Gutfeld.

· Livin’ the Bream

Inspirational stories, personal anecdotes and an insider’s perspective from Shannon Bream.

· HemmerTime

One on one with engaging personalities hosted by Bill Hemmer.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The first hour of the Brian Kilmeade Radio Show on FOX News Talk 9am-Noon Eastern M-F.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The up and coming Country Music star, Jordan Davis joins us in the studio this week to talk about his debut album Home State, which has industry insiders buzzing about its originality. The dynamic singer/songwriter known for his big, bushy beard is getting more attention for his hit song Singles You Up which continues to make its way to the top of the charts.

Subscribe and download on your favorite podcast platform: Apple Podcasts , Google Play , Tune In , Stitcher .

Jordan talks about growing up in a musical family and sings some of his biggest songs including his hit Singles You Up, Leaving New Orleans and Take It From Me.

The series producer, Brad Newman hosts this music-filled episode from our podcast studios in midtown Manhattan.

Like us on Facebook. Follow us on Twitter and Instagram. We want to know what you think. Pitch us an artist, or simply spread the word and find out more about the series. #childrenofsong