The federal judge presiding over the Michael Cohen case finds herself at the center of one of the toughest legal brawls of the Trump era -- but District Judge Kimba Wood is no stranger to the spotlight.

She has a colorful and potentially controversial past that could arise as the case involving President Trump's personal attorney moves forward. Trump allies were quick to note that Wood once was considered for attorney general by then-President Bill Clinton -- and she even officiated the wedding of left-wing billionaire George Soros.

Former Trump adviser and current Fox News contributor Sebastian Gorka said Wood should recuse herself.



“Now she has power over the lawyer who works for the man who beat Bill’s wife in the 2016 election,” he tweeted. “WHERE’S THE THE RECUSAL?”

At the same time, the judge has a tough reputation and may end up a fitting addition to a courtroom cast that involves some of New York's most outspoken figures.

New York Times reporter and Trump-watcher Maggie Haberman mused that Wood’s “colorful personal history is sort of perfect for a Trump associate trial.”

In 2013, Wood presided over the marriage of Soros to his third wife Tamiko Bolton in Bedford, N.Y.

The Hungarian-American billionaire is known for his promotion and enormous funding of left-wing causes worldwide. According to Open Secrets, Soros pumped $10 million into Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign -- making him one of her top donors. Politico reported that his total funding of left-wing and Democratic causes during the 2016 cycle was $25 million.



Predictably, Soros is no fan of Trump, calling him a “danger to the world” at the World Economic Forum earlier this year.

SOROS CALLS TRUMP ADMINISTRATION A 'DANGER TO THE WORLD'



But Soros isn’t Wood’s only liberal connection. While she was nominated to the U.S. District Court by Republican President Ronald Reagan, she was thrust in the national spotlight in 1993 when she was chosen by Democratic President Bill Clinton to be attorney general.

The Clinton White House informed reporters that they expected to announce Wood, only for her to withdraw from consideration amid a public firestorm over revelations she had hired an illegal immigrant as a nanny.



Wood was the second Clinton pick for attorney general to be taken down by the controversy that became known as “Nannygate.” Wood’s name was floated only after Clinton’s first pick, Zoe Baird, had withdrawn after it was revealed she too hired illegal immigrants for household work.



According to a contemporaneous New York Times report, the Clinton White House was furious about Wood’s revelation as officials said they had asked specifically about her household help after the Baird fiasco, but Wood said she did not mislead the White House.



She had also raised eyebrows at the time over revelations that she had briefly trained as a Playboy bunny in the '60s, something White House officials feared could lead to some mockery.



The Times’ account of Wood’s withdrawal from consideration reports that the White House had been limited for picks after the president, pressed by then-first lady Hillary Clinton, demanded the post be filled by a woman. Wood, although a respected jurist, was seen as lacking law-enforcement and managerial credentials.



Consequently, when the “Nannygate” controversy arose, Democrats on the Senate Judiciary Committee including then-Delaware Senator Joe Biden were not keen to fight for the nomination. Janet Reno was eventually nominated and confirmed for the post.



According to The New York Daily News, she has a reputation for being a tough judge, particularly over her sentencing of "junk bond king" Michael Milken to 10 years in prison. The Daily News also reported that in 1995 she was branded the “Love Judge” when the wife of multimillionaire Frank Richardson found his diary, filled with entries about his relationship with Wood.



Cohen is under criminal investigation as part of a grand jury probe into his personal conduct and business dealings, including a $130,000 payment made to adult film actress Stormy Daniels in exchange for her silence about an alleged sexual encounter with the married Trump in 2006.

On Monday, Wood denied a request from Cohen to review the documents seized at his home and office last week before prosecutors see them.

Wood said that she had faith in the Justice Department's so-called "taint team" to isolate materials protected by attorney-client privilege, but added that she would consider allowing a neutral third party requested by Cohen to weigh in.

JUDGE WON'T LET TRUMP ATTORNEY COHEN REVIEW SEIZED FILES BEFORE THE FEDS, AS STORMY DANIELS SPEAKS OUT

It was also revealed on Monday that Fox News host Sean Hannity was the third individual who received Cohen's legal help. Hannity has since clarified that while he had “brief discussions” about legal questions, they never involved any matter between him and a third party.

Fox News said in a statement on Tuesday, "While FOX News was unaware of Sean Hannity's informal relationship with Michael Cohen and was surprised by the announcement in court yesterday, we have reviewed the matter and spoken to Sean and he continues to have our full support."

Fox News’ Brooke Singman contributed to this report.The cable bill was the last straw, says Kristin Tate. "That's the one that really made me mad."

Comcast included $36 in charges for mysterious things like "utility tax" and "government access fee."

That motivated her to research obscure taxes and put what she learned in a new book, "How Do I Tax Thee? A Field Guide to the Great American Rip-Off."

Rip-off? Even limited government needs some taxes to fund basic functions.

"Yes," says Tate. "But politicians are cowards. Instead of creating a tax, they magically create these little fees (so) they don't have to tell their voters they raised taxes."

Voters don't often notice the sneaky taxes.

Tuesday was "Tax Day." It was April 17 this year because April 15 fell on Sunday and Monday was Emancipation Day. But by calling April 17 "Tax Day," the media miss the big picture. Income taxes make up less than half the tax most of us pay.

We also must pay payroll tax, corporate tax, gift tax, gambling tax, federal unemployment tax, gas tax, cable and telecom taxes, plane ticket tax, FCC subscriber line charges, car documentation fees, liquor and cigarette taxes, etc.

People can't keep track. For my latest YouTube video, Tate asked people, "What's your tax rate?" Tourists in Times Square said that they thought they paid about 20 percent. But they left off the hotel taxes, airline taxes, etc., that push Americans' total tax load to almost 50 percent.

When you pay those hidden taxes, you may assume they go toward useful things, but Tate knows her taxes pay for government waste.

"Extreme inefficiencies, pensions that are to die for -- these amazing salaries that these public workers get that are just laughably above market." New York City's average subway worker makes $155,000 a year.

Politicians suggest their extra taxes go, not to fund those big salaries and "pensions to-die-for," but to pay for the specific services for which the taxes are named. Tate says that's rarely true.

"Cable bills and cellphone bills both have an 'Enhanced 911 Fee.' Consumers were told 911 fees were necessary to make upgrades to emergency communication needs. (But) after it was updated, instead of taking away the tax, it just stayed there."

Chicago doubled cellphone fees to fund its Olympics bid. The Olympics rejected Chicago -- but the tax remained. Now Mayor Rahm Emanuel wants to raise it again.

More. They always want more.

"New York City has an eight-cent 'bagel-cutting tax,'" says Tate. For some reason, unsliced bagels are not taxed.

California has a 33 percent tax on fruit bought through a vending machine.

Maine imposes a one-and-a-half-cent per pound tax on blueberries shipped out of state.

Because these taxes sound petty, governments disguise them, says Tate, using "important-sounding language -- like 'documentation fee,' 'service charge,' or 'equalization fee.'" But most of the money raised just goes to the general budget.

"Wisconsin just renamed its 911 fee the 'Police and Fire Protection Fee,'" says Tate. "But actually, none of that money directly goes to fire or police protection. Instead it goes straight into the state's general fund."

And they still can't fund the pensions the politicians promised government workers.

Tate adopted two dogs and then learned that New York City imposes a $34 per year "pet licensing fee."

"I won't pay it," says Tate. "I am technically breaking the law."

She's braver than I am. I try to follow government's stupid rules. And if I broke them, I wouldn't announce it. I figure the IRS is eager to punish government critics like me.

"I'm totally comfortable talking about that," said Tate. "They can come track me down."

They may. Governments go to great lengths to collect taxes.

"Seattle purchased lists of people buying pet food and mailed them threatening letters," says Tate. "The county's pet-licensing agency made more than $80,000."

Governments should drop the pretense and just charge one huge "everything tax."

Of course, then taxpayers might wake up and realize what's been done to us. That's one thing politicians don't want.Historians and journalists on Tuesday tweeted out the hand-written love letter that future President George H.W. Bush sent to his then-fiancée Barbara Pierce on Dec. 12, 1943.

Michael Beschloss, a presidential historian, tweeted that Bush was a U.S. Navy pilot at the time during World War II. The letter written in blue ink on Navy stationery and begins: "My darling Bar."

The future president begins by telling her how happy he was to read their engagement announcement in the newspaper.

“I love you, precious, with all my heart and to know that you love me means my life. How often I have thought about the immeasurable joy that will be ours someday. How lucky our children will be to have a mother like you,” the letter read.

The two met at a Christmas dance. She was 17. He was 18. The future president was a naval aviator in training.

"I'm not much at recalling what people wear, but that particular occasion stands out in my memory," he wrote in his autobiography.

The band was playing Glenn Miller tunes and he asked a friend from Rye, N.Y., if he knew the girl across the room in the green and red holiday dress.

The friend introduced him to Barbara Pierce, a publisher's daughter from Rye who was going to school in South Carolina. The next song was a waltz.

"Since I didn't waltz, we sat the dance out. And several more after that, talking and getting to know each other," Bush wrote. "It was a storybook meeting."

Barbara Bush, 92, died Tuesday, shortly after her family announced she was in failing health and would decline further medical treatment in favor of "comfort care." There were no details of her specific health problems.

In a statement, one of her sons, former President George W. Bush, called his mother "a fabulous First Lady and a woman unlike any other."

The two were married Jan. 6, 1945, four months after the elder Bush was shot down over the Pacific. He'd been the Navy's youngest aviator when he got his wings and carried the name "Barbara" on his Grumman Avenger torpedo bomber.

The letter, which was kept in the former first lady’s scrapbook, goes on to mention the war and the mission, but the young pilot wrote that he couldn’t wait to return to her.

“This may sound melodramamtic, but if it does it is only my inadequacy to say what I mean. Bar, you have made my life full of everything I could ever dream of — my complete happiness should be a token of my love for you.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.President Donald Trump tweeted late Tuesday against the United States rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership after recently asking trade officials to reexamine the deal he pulled out of during his first days in office.

The tweet comes as Trump is meeting with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in Mar-a-Lago, where the two are expected to talk about trade issues. Abe was a strong advocate of the TPP, which was backed by the Obama administration.

“While Japan and South Korea would like us to go back into TPP, I don’t like the deal for the United States,” Trump tweeted. “Too many contingencies and no way to get out if it doesn’t work. Bilateral deals are far more efficient, profitable and better for OUR workers. Look how bad WTO is to U.S.”

The World Trade Organization is composed of 164 countries and deals with global rules of trade between nations.

Trump did not specifically say the U.S. was not interested in the deal. The president is scheduled to play golf with Abe on Wednesday.

Larry Kudlow, the White House economic adviser, earlier downplayed the possibility of the U.S. rejoining the pact.

"On the American side at the moment, it’s more of a thought than a policy,” Kudlow said, according to the Hill. He went on that “it has to be in U.S. interest for us to take another look and actually go into it. The president believes it is not presently in U.S. interest to sign it.”

Trump’s request to take another look at the TPP comes as he faces pressure from farm-state Republicans anxious that his protectionist trade policies could spiral into a trade war with China that would hurt rural America.

Trump spent the 2016 presidential campaign ripping into the multi-national pact, saying he could get a better deal for U.S. businesses by negotiating one-on-one with countries in the Pacific Rim. Now, faced with political consequences of the action, Trump appears to be reconsidering.

“Last year, the president kept his promise to end the TPP deal negotiated by the Obama Administration because it was unfair to American workers and farmers,” the White House said in a statement.

Trump first disclosed his request last week to a group of lawmakers at a White House meeting on trade. Lawmakers have been pressing Trump to shift course after escalating trade threats, including China’s plan to slap tariffs on soybeans and other U.S. crops.

“I’m sure there are lots of particulars that they’d want to negotiate, but the president multiple times reaffirmed in general to all of us and looked right at Larry Kudlow and said, ‘Larry, go get it done,’” said U.S. Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.San Diego County voted Tuesday to become the latest in a string of local governments throughout California backing the Trump administration lawsuit against the state over its sanctuary city laws.

After hearing from residents, the all-Republican San Diego County Board of Supervisors voted 3-1 to support a lawsuit by the federal government over laws it says limits police cooperation with federal immigration agents. One member was absent during Tuesday’s vote.

As the second largest county in California, San Diego — a region of 3 million residents that borders Mexico — is the largest county to back the lawsuit.

Supervisor Greg Cox, who cast the only dissenting vote, said in a statement afterward that “the board’s vote is a largely symbolic move that will create fear and divisiveness in our region, waste taxpayer funds and create distrust of law enforcement and local government within many communities.”

The vote followed a similar one Monday when the city of Los Alamitos voted 4-1 to approve an ordinance seeking to exempt the city from the so-called sanctuary law on the grounds that it was unconstitutional.

TRUMP ADMINISTRATION LAWSUIT AGAINST CALIFORNIA SANCTUARY LAWS BACKED BY THESE CITIES, COUNTIES

A string of local governments throughout the state of California has backed the Trump administration’s decision to sue last month, arguing that the federal government, not the state, has authority over immigration policy.

San Diego now joins Orange County, the state’s third-most-populous county, in rejecting a state law that shields criminal illegal immigrants from deportation.

The San Diego vote brings to 10 the number of governmental entities that voted against the state law that declared California, and by statute — all law enforcement in it — would not communicate with federal agents when it came to all but the most violent or repeat, convicted criminal illegal immigrants.

California Gov. Jerry Brown said Tuesday that Washington’s tough stance against immigrants in the country illegally is “just an inflammatory football that very low-life politicians like to exploit.”

If President Donald Trump “wants to round them up like some totalitarian government and ship them out, say that,” Brown said. “But he doesn’t say that because the American people would repudiate him and his party.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.With the news of Barbara Bush’s passing on Tuesday, lawmakers and officials from around the world shared fond words about the former first lady.

Bush, described as “a relentless proponent of family literacy,” died at the age of 92, a spokesman for the family confirmed.

Read on to see what others had to say about the former first lady:

President Trump tweeted he and first lady Melania Trump “join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush.” He went on to describe her as “an advocate of the American family” and said she would “be remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well.”

A tweeted statement from Vice President Mike Pence said, "Bush was a woman of unique strength and grace whose devotion to her family was an inspiration to every American."

Second lady Karen Pence also tweeted, reflecting on the first time she met the former first lady in 1988.

Former President Barack Obama and Mrs. Obama shared a statement on Twitter, calling Bush "the rock of a family dedicated to public service."

"There was no one else quite like Barbara Bush," former Vice President Joe Biden tweeted.

A statement released by former Vice President Dick Cheney read, "Barbara Bush will forever be remembered as she lived, a courageous woman who dispensed wit in equal measure with gestures of kindness."

"As First Lady, she was a selfless servant to our country and a powerful advocate for literacy," the statement continued. "She championed courage and a sense of self-worth that was rivaled only by her life-long devotion to George H.W. Bush. Lynn and I were blessed to know Barbara and we join the entire nation in offering our prayers to the Bush family."

Former President Bill Clinton tweeted that Bush was “a remarkable woman” who “showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like.” He said he and Hillary "mourn her passing and bless her memory."

Former Vice President Al Gore said Bush was "a pillar of strength for her family and was much admired in our country."

"Barbara Bush was a great lady and a dear friend," John H. Sununu, former New Hampshire governor and Chief of Staff for H.W. Bush, tweeted. "Her passing is a terrible loss for the Bush family, the Sununu family and for all America."

Former President Jimmy Carter and his wife Rosalynn said in a statement that Bush "touched the hearts of millions with her warmth, generosity, and keen wit."

Republican Speaker of the House Paul Ryan offered his condolences to the Bush family and said “May she rest in eternal peace.”

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in a tweet said Bush "personified grace and class as First Lady and throughout her life."

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the country "joins the Bush family, their many friends, and all the country in their grief, and in prayer."

"Tonight is a sad night for America," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi tweeted. "First Lady Barbara Bush will be remembered for the dignity, civility & spirit she brought to every thing she did."

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., in a tweet about Bush said she'll "miss her wit and candor."

"One of the greatest First Ladies in the history of our nation has gone to her Heavenly reward," South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham tweeted.

Texas Gov. Greg Abbott in a statement asked "that all Texans join us in keeping" the Bush family "in their thoughts and prayers as they mourn the passing of a devoted wife, mother, and public servant."

Alabama Gov. Kay Ivey in a statement said Bush's "life is a shining example of how strong women can serve their country & help improve the lives of all Americans."

Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., in a statement said, "Barbara remains an example to all of us of kindness and patriotism, and will fondly be remembered for her courage, grit and intense loyalty to those she loved and cared for."

Utah Senate candidate and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney said Bush was “the great First Lady of our times” and he and his wife “will profoundly miss her friendship, her compassion, & the twinkle of her eye.”

Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright tweeted that Bush “was a woman of incredible determination, wit, and compassion who embodied America’s best values.”

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tweeted that Bush leaves behind “a legacy of dignity, grace, service and devotion to family.”

"From her scrappy demeanor and no-frills style to her boundless passion for family literacy and freedom, Barbara Bush was America at its best," former Speaker of the House John Boehner tweeted.

The Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy tweeted, "We mourn the passing of Barbara Bush, who believed that the world would be a better place if more people could read, write and comprehend."

The daughters of former President Nixon shared a statement via the Nixon Foundation on the bond between their mother and Bush, "who shared a special commitment in how they embraced the role of First Lady."

James A. Baker, III, former Secretary of State and White House Chief of Staff, shared a statement via the Baker Institute saying, "As only one of two women in American history who can be called First Lady and First Mother, she was matriarch of a family that remains as dedicated to public service as it was to politics."

"Barbara Bush's memory lives on through the love of her family," Republican National Committee Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement. "We at the RNC are praying for peace and blessing for the entire Bush family."

Democratic National Committee Chair Tom Perez in a statement said, "With the passing of Barbara Bush, America has lost a tireless public servant. From championing literacy to promoting awareness and distigmatization of AIDS, the former first lady put the values of inclusion and equality into action, and there's no doubt that the world is a better place because of her invaluable service.

"With grace and compassion, Mrs. Bush brought her sense of humor and steady moral compass to the White House," he continued. "She never ceased in her work to strengthen our nation."CIA Director Mike Pompeo met with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un over Easter weekend in an effort to lay the groundwork for a summit between Kim and President Trump, Fox News has confirmed.

Pompeo's trip, which was first reported by The Washington Post, came to light hours after Trump told reporters that the U.S. and North Korea are holding direct talks at "extremely high levels" in preparation for what would be an extraordinary meeting following months of heated rhetoric over Pyongyang's nuclear weapons program.

The White House and the CIA declined to comment to Fox News about Pompeo's visit.

"The administration does not comment on the CIA Director’s travel," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement.

Trump, who welcomed Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to his Florida resort Tuesday, said five locations for the potential summit are under consideration. The president would not disclose the sites but said the U.S. was not among them.

"We'll either have a very good meeting or we won't have a good meeting," Trump told reporters. "And maybe we won't even have a meeting at all, depending on what's going in. But I think that there's a great chance to solve a world problem."

The president did not answer shouted questions about whether he has spoken with Kim.

Kim's offer for a summit was initially conveyed to Trump by South Korea last month, and the president shocked many when it was announced that he had accepted. U.S. officials have indicated over the past two weeks that North Korea's government has communicated directly with Washington that it is ready to discuss its nuclear weapons program.

Abe, who has voiced fears that short- and medium-range missiles that pose a threat to Japan might not be part of the U.S. negotiations, praised Trump on Tuesday for his bravery in agreeing to meet with the North Korean dictator.

"I'd like to commend Donald's courage in his decision to have the upcoming summit meeting with the North Korean leader," Abe said.

Trump also confirmed that North and South Korea are working to negotiate an end to hostilities before next week's meeting between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae In. The meeting will be the third inter-Korean summit since the Koreas' 1945 division.

North Korea has long sought a peace treaty with the U.S. to formally end the 1950-53 Korean War. But it is unusual for the North to seek to broach the issue directly with South Korea rather than with Washington. The armistice that ended the fighting was signed by the United Nations Command — the U.S.-led forces in the conflict — North Korea and China. South Korea was a member of the U.N. Command but was not a direct signatory.

Trump said Tuesday that the two Koreas "have my blessing to discuss the end of the war."

Fox News' John Roberts, Serafin Gomez and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Former first lady Barbara Bush passed away Tuesday night at the age of 92, a spokesman for the Bush family confirmed.

In addition to the impact she made on the political world, Bush also left her mark throughout the U.S. Big names in showbusiness, sports, business and other industries took to social media to pay tribute to the former first and second lady, oft viewed as America's grandmother.

The U.S. Secret Service expressed its "sincere condolences to the family of Mrs. Barbara Bush, the epitome of class and grace during and after her service to our country as First Lady of the United States."

JJ Watt, defensive end for the Houston Texans, tweeted that Bush was "a beautiful light in this world," and noted he's "forever thankful for your friendship."

The New York Yankees had a moment of "silent prayer" in Bush's honor during the 7th inning stretch at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx Tuesday night, according to Nick Corasaniti of The New York Times.

Ellen DeGeneres said that Bush "lived an incredible life," and said she's "sending my love to her family."

"Our dear Barbara Bush. A grand lady, a great friend...she made the White House a brighter place," Larry King tweeted. "How we will miss you! Rest In Peace."

Bethenny Frankel looked back on Bush's life, which she said was "full. ... the stories she must have told her grandchildren."

The Texas Rangers said the former first lady "will forever be in our hearts," and the Houston Astros said the team "is deeply saddened to hear" of Bush's passing.

"As First Lady, Mrs. Bush epitomized grace, dignity and strength," Reid Ryan, President of the Astros, stated. "As Houstonians and frequent visitors to Minute Maid Park to watch their beloved Astros, we had the great privilege of getting to know Mrs. Bush and President Bush personally."

Ryan detailed that during their time visitng the park, the pair "always greeted everyone from the ticket-takers to the ushers with a warm, friendly smile."

"I'm ever more aware these days of the importance of the example that comes from the White House," American Idol alum Clay Aiken tweeted. "I'm so grateful that, when I was my son's age, #BarbaraBush was such an amazing example for us children of the 80s and for all Americans. Rest in glory, Madam First Lady."The high-profile Monday court hearing tied to the FBI raid on President Trump's personal attorney sets up what could be a drawn-out battle over access to the seized materials.

U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood will decide later this week how to proceed regarding the files and devices taken during the raid on Michael Cohen's properties.

Wood instructed prosecutors to share all seized documents with Cohen's legal team through a searchable database. Prosecutors are expected to let Wood know Wednesday how long it will take to share the documents.

After the material is shared, Cohen’s lawyers will review the material with Trump’s counsel and bring back to the court information that they consider privileged.

The approximate number of privileged materials among the seized documents is needed before Wood can determine whether to appoint a neutral, third party to review the documents.

Wood, 74, said she has faith in the Justice Department’s “taint team” in handling the seized information, but she didn’t completely rule out a request from Cohen to have a "special master" weigh in. However, she declined to let Cohen’s team review the material before prosecutors, a setback for Trump’s legal team.

Cohen’s lawyers had cited attorney-client privilege when asking to review the documents first.

In a surprise twist Monday, Cohen’s attorney also revealed who his third client is, apart from Trump and a GOP fundraiser: Fox News’ Sean Hannity.

Fox News said in a statement released Tuesday: "While FOX News was unaware of Sean Hannity's informal relationship with Michael Cohen and was surprised by the announcement in court yesterday, we have reviewed the matter and spoken to Sean and he continues to have our full support."

Hannity on Monday stressed that Cohen did not formally represent him.

“Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter,” Hannity said in a statement. “I have never retained him, received an invoice or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective. I assumed those questions were confidential, but to be absolutely clear they never involved any matter between me and a third party.”

Hannity clarified on Twitter that his discussion with Cohen involved real estate.

Cohen, 51, is the president’s attorney who previously worked for the Trump Organization. He is under a criminal investigation as part of a grand jury probe into his personal conduct and business dealings, including a $130,000 payment made in 2016 to adult film star Stormy Daniels for her silence regarding an alleged sexual encounter with Trump in 2006 while he was married.

Aside from the Daniels payment, the federal raid on Cohen’s home and office also sought bank records, information on Cohen’s dealings in the taxi industry and his communications with the Trump campaign. He has not been charged with anything.

Fox News’ Lissa Kaplan, Brooke Singman and The Associated Press contributed to this report.The Environmental Protection Agency defended its embattled boss, Scott Pruitt, after the Republican chairman of a Senate committee noted that Pruitt apparently used four government email accounts.

Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman John Barrasso issued a letter asking EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to disclose all his email addresses and affirm that all were being searched in response to Freedom of Information Act requests.

“Can you confirm that the EPA does in fact search all your official email accounts when responding to [Freedom of Information Act] requests?” Barrasso asked Pruitt in the letter, according to The Hill.

In his letter, Barrasso, a Wyoming Republican, recounted that during confirmation hearings last year Pruitt had assured the senators he would not take any actions that would make it more difficult or impossible to access his official written communications under FOIA.

The Hill reported Pruitt responded to Barrasso affirmatively.

EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox said Tuesday that the agency maintains two email addresses for Pruitt that are used by his staff for public correspondence and maintaining his calendar. A third is used by Pruitt himself while a fourth account was created but never was used, the spokesman said.

Wilcox said Pruitt had not used private email to conduct public business while at EPA.

“When we receive a FOIA request all accounts are searched before we respond,” Wilcox said.

The National Archives and Records Administration ruled in 2013 that federal officials could use undisclosed government email accounts to conduct official business as long as the messages are safely preserved and turned over under FOIA.

The action came in response that revealed several high-ranking Obama administration appointees, including then-EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, had been using secret email accounts. At the time, congressional Republicans accused Jackson of using a government email account under the name “Richard Windsor” to sidestep disclosure rules.

Pruitt has been under intense scrutiny since it was first revealed last month that he had stayed last year in a bargain-priced Capitol Hill condo tied to a fossil-fuels lobbyist. The EPA administrator and those around him are the subject of multiple investigations launched by government watchdogs and congressional committees looking into luxury travel expenses, outsized security spending and massive raises awarded to political appointees.

EPA’s inspector general has at least five ongoing Pruitt-related probes, while the House oversight panel on Friday demanded interviews with five of his closest aides.

Barrasso’s letter followed one sent last week by Democratic Sens. Jeff Merkley of Oregon and Tom Carper of Delaware asking EPA’s inspector general to review the issue. The two Democrats, both members of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, expressed concern that the agency’s searches for public records may not have covered all of the EPA administrator’s accounts.

Pruitt also has previously faced questions about transparency with his emails.

An Oklahoma judge ruled last year that Pruitt, the state’s former attorney general, had violated public records laws by improperly withholding his correspondence for at least two years. Thousands of emails eventually were released under court order, but only after Pruitt had already won Senate confirmation for his current job.

Those Oklahoma emails showed ties between Pruitt and his state’s oil and gas industry, including close coordination on lawsuits challenging EPA environmental regulations.

When a summer thunderstorm knocked out power to Scott Pruitt’s home in 2013, for example, the then-attorney general directed his executive assistant to coordinate with a lobbyist for American Electric Power to get the lights back on quickly.

Records also showed Pruitt occasionally used a private email account to communicate with state staff, despite assurances he made during his Senate confirmation process that he always had used a state email account for government business.

Democrats later accused Pruitt of being untruthful in his sworn testimony before the committee.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens vowed that he would not resign Tuesday night, hours after the state's attorney general suggested that Greitens had illegally used a charity donor list for political purposes.

In a statement, the Republican governor responded to calls from the state's GOP legislative leadership for him to step down over the findings by Attorney General Josh Hawley as well as Greitens' indictment on a felony invasion of privacy charge.

"I will not be resigning the Governor's office," Greitens said in a statement on Twitter. "In three weeks, this matter will go to a court of law—where it belongs and where the facts will prove my innocence. Until then, I will do what the people of Missouri sent me here to do: to serve them and work hard on their behalf."

Senate President Pro Tem Ron Richard said that after speaking with Hawley, "I believe the governor has no other respectable option than to resign from office."

House Speaker Todd Richardson and two other House Republican leaders said "we believe the governor needs to take responsibility for his actions."

"In our view, the time has come for the governor to resign," they said.

Greitens, who was elected governor in 2016, is accused of taking and transmitting a nonconsensual photo of a partially nude woman with whom he had an affair in 2015. A separate House investigatory panel released a report last week containing testimony from the woman alleging that Greitens restrained, slapped, grabbed, shoved and threatened her during a series of sexual encounters that at times left her crying and afraid.

The case is scheduled to go to trial on May 14.

Greitens' legal troubles deepened Tuesday afternoon when Hawley told reporters that an investigation by his office shows that Greitens took computer data listing the top donors to The Mission Continues without the consent of the St. Louis-based veterans' charity he had founded and used it to raise money for his gubernatorial campaign.

"Within the past several days, we have obtained evidence of potential criminal violations," Hawley said. "These potentially criminal acts were committed by Governor Eric Greitens."

Hawley said he referred the matter to St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner, who has jurisdiction to decide whether to charge Greitens with a crime -- and whose office is prosecuting Greitens in the invasion-of-privacy case. Hawley also referred his findings to the special House committee, which is considering whether to recommend impeachment proceedings to try to remove Greitens from office.

Greitens accused Hawley -- a Republican running for the U.S. Senate against Democratic incumbent Claire McCaskill -- of being "better at press conferences than the law."

"Anyone who has set foot in a Missouri courtroom knows these allegations are ridiculous," Greitens went on. "Josh has turned the 'evidence' he claims to have over to St. Louis Circuit Attorney Kim Gardner— a liberal prosecutor funded by George Soros who allegedly suborned perjury, falsified documents, and withheld evidence. We will dispense with these false allegations."

A spokeswoman for Gardner said St. Louis prosecutors met with officials from the attorney general's office Monday and are "reviewing the evidence" related to The Mission Continues donor list.

Hawley indicated that the legal deadline is fast approaching to charge Greitens with a crime of tampering with computer data. He said Greitens could be charged with a felony because the donor list produced a gain to Greitens' campaign of more than $500.

Federal law bars 501(c)(3) charities such as The Mission Continues from intervening in political campaigns on behalf of candidates. The Internal Revenue Service has ruled charities cannot give donor lists to politicians but can rent them at fair market value if made available to all candidates.

Mission Continues spokeswoman Laura L'Esperance said Tuesday that Greitens had access to the donor list as CEO but did not have permission to later use it for his campaign.

"The Mission Continues did not authorize the use of any donor information for political purposes, nor did we promote Governor Greitens for political office," she said.

The Associated Press first reported in October 2016 that Greitens' campaign had obtained a Mission Continues spreadsheet showing the names, email addresses and phone numbers of donors who had given least $1,000. The spreadsheet properties show it was created by a Mission Continues employee in 2014, shortly before Greitens stepped down as CEO, and had last been saved in March 2015 by Michael Hafner, who had been working for Greitens' gubernatorial exploratory committee. The AP reported that Greitens had raised nearly $2 million from donors who previously gave significant amounts to The Mission Continues.

In October 2016, Greitens initially denied using the list for his campaign. But in April 2017, he agreed to pay a small fine to the Missouri Ethics Commission for failing to report that his gubernatorial campaign had, in fact, received the charity's donor list. Greitens campaign filed amended finance reports valuing the list as a $600 in-kind contribution received March 1, 2015, from Danny Laub, who was listed as Greitens' campaign manager at the time.

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported in February 2018 that it had obtained a copy of an email indicating that a Greitens employee had shared The Mission Continues donor list with Hafner and Laub in January 2015.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Former first lady Barbara Bush passed away Tuesday at the age of 92, a spokesman for the Bush family confirmed.

“A former First Lady of the United States of America and relentless proponent of family literacy, Barbara Pierce Bush passed away Tuesday, April 17, 2018 at the age of 92,” a statement from the office of George H.W. Bush said.

BARBARA BUSH, FORMER FIRST LADY, DEAD AT 92

“She is survived by her husband of 73 years, President George H. W. Bush; five children and their spouses; 17 grandchildren; seven great grandchildren; and her brother, Scott Pierce," the statement continued. "She was preceded in death by her second child, Pauline Robinson “Robin” Bush, and her siblings Martha Rafferty and James R. Pierce.”

Funeral arrangements would be “announced as soon as is practical,” the statement said.

Read on for reactions from members of the Bush family.

Son and former President George W. Bush released a statement saying his “dear mother” had passed away and that the family would “miss her dearly.”

"My dear mother has passed on at age 92. Laura, Barbara, Jenna, and I are sad, but our souls are settled because we know hers was,” the statement said. “Barbara Bush was a fabulous First Lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love, and literacy to millions. To us, she was so much more.

Bush said that his mother "kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end. I’m a lucky man that Barbara Bush was my mother. Our family will miss her dearly, and we thank you all for your prayers and good wishes."

Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush in a statement said that he is “exceptionally privileged to be the son of George Bush and the exceptionally gracious, gregarious, fun, funny, loving, tough, smart, graceful woman who was the force of nature known as Barbara Bush.”

“Columba and I join every member of the Bush family in offering our sincere gratitude for the outpouring of love and support for my Mom in recent days, and throughout her remarkable life,” he said. “Thank you for your prayers, and we look forward to celebrating and honoring her life and contributions to our family and great nation in the coming days.”

Bush’s grandson, George, tweeted, “My grandmother's entire life was focused on others. For my grandfather, she was his top adviser and confidante. For her family, she was a steady, loving and guiding hand. And for her country, she was an inspiration and an example for all.”

“My grandmother didn't just live life; she lived it well,” he continued. “And the sorrow of her loss is softened by the knowledge of her impact on our family and our country. I will miss you, Ganny—but know we will see you again.”

Jeb Bush, Jr. tweeted "how lucky we are to have had Ganny in our lives!" The grandson of the former first lady said he believes she "would have wanted us to remember her by picking up a book and reading to our child, grandchild, or finding an opinion different then our own."

"I love her and miss her very much," Jr. tweeted. "She did it her way - with grace and class."

Jenna Bush Hager, granddaughter of Bush, wrote in an Instagram post that her grandmother was a "FORCE of a woman" who "was the glue that held our family together."

"She taught me to use my voice but also to value the opinions of others. She adored her friends and family; her loyalty was unwavering. Humor helps, she often said and it does, Gans, but I will miss your laugh terribly," Hager's post read. "She adored my Gampy, the first man she ever kissed; their love story is so engrained in the history of our family."With her cloud of snow-white hair, signature three strand pearls and compelling presence, Barbara Bush's image was what she laughingly called "everybody's grandmother." But the feisty, outspoken Bush was also a tireless advocate for literacy , an author, experienced campaigner and both wife and mother of a U.S. president.

Bush, 92, died Tuesday, shortly after her family announced she was in failing health and would decline further medical treatment in favor of "comfort care." There were no details of her specific health problems.

The announcement was made in a statement from the office of former President George H.W. Bush.

"A former First Lady of the United States of America and relentless proponent of family literacy, Barbara Pierce Bush passed away Tuesday, April 17, 2018 at the age of 92. She is survived by her husband of 73 years, President George H. W. Bush; five children and their spouses; 17 grandchildren; seven great grandchildren; and her brother, Scott Pierce. She was preceded in death by her second child, Pauline Robinson 'Robin' Bush, and her siblings Martha Rafferty and James R. Pierce."

Bush was “broken-hearted” over the loss of his “beloved Barbara” and was said to have held her hand all day. He was “at her side” when she passed away, his chief of staff said.

In a statement, her son, former President George W. Bush, called his mother "a fabulous First Lady and a woman unlike any other."

He also said, "My dear mother has passed on at age 92. Laura, Barbara, Jenna, and I are sad, but our souls are settled because we know hers was. Barbara Bush was a fabulous First Lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love, and literacy to millions. To us, she was so much more. Mom kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end. I’m a lucky man that Barbara Bush was my mother. Our family will miss her dearly, and we thank you all for your prayers and good wishes."

Shortly after news of her passing came out, President Donald Trump shared his "thoughts and prayers" with the Bush family.

Barbara Bush was survived by her husband of 73 years, former President George H.W. Bush, five children (a sixth died as a toddler), 17 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.

Her granddaughter, Jenna Bush Hager, told NBC News on Monday that she and her twin, Barbara, named after her grandmother, had spoken with the family matriarch Sunday night and “she’s in great spirits, and she’s a fighter and she’s an enforcer.”

A source close to the family told CBS News that the former first lady was having a glass of bourbon the night before her passing.

Barbara Bush was born June 8, 1925, in New York City, the third of four children of Marvin Pierce, a magazine publishing executive, and Pauline Robinson Pierce. She grew up in the affluent suburb of Rye, New York, where she was an avid athlete, excelling at swimming and tennis.

As a teen, she attended Ashley Hall, a boarding school in South Carolina. In 1941, when she was 16 and home on Christmas break, she met George Herbert Walker Bush, then a student at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., at a holiday dance. The attraction was immediate and 18 months later, they were engaged.

Barbara entered Smith College but dropped out to marry Bush, who had gone to war as a Navy torpedo bomber pilot. She was 19 and he was 20 when they wed January 6, 1945 in Rye. Years later, she said, "I married the first man I ever kissed. When I tell my children that, they just about throw up. "

As newlyweds, the couple lived in New Haven, Conn., where Bush was a student at Yale and their first child, George W. Bush, was born. They then moved around regularly – to Texas, California, and back to various Texas cities – as the family grew. By the time she moved to Washington for her husband's vice presidency, Barbara Bush estimated they had moved 29 times.

George W. Bush was followed by a sister, Robin, who lived almost four years before dying of leukemia (an event some speculated was the cause of Barbara Bush's hair turning prematurely white). The children who followed were Jeb, Neil, Marvin and Dorothy.

While George – who called his wife "Bar" - built a business in the oil industry, Barbara devoted herself to raising their family. When he entered public life – as a congressman, U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Chairman of the Republican National Committee, Chief of the U.S. Liaison Office in the People's Republic of China, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and later as Vice President, she was at his side.

As the vice president's wife, she selected literacy as her special cause. Later, after her husband was elected president, she founded the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. She also was an advocate for volunteerism, including programs involving the homeless, elderly and those with AIDS.

Along the way, she wrote two books about the family dogs, "C. Fred's Story" and the best-selling "Millie's Book," with profits benefitting literacy. After her husband left the White House, she wrote a best-selling autobiography "Barbara Bush: A Memoir" in 1994 followed by "Reflections" in 2004.

Bush once explained that people liked her because "I'm fair and I like children and I adore my husband."

She also was known for her forthright manner, especially when anyone challenged her family. In 1984, speaking of her husband's vice presidential opponent, Geraldine Ferraro, Bush said she couldn't say what she thought of the Democrat on television but "it rhymes with rich."

Following her husband's loss in the 1992 presidential election, the couple moved to Houston and also spent time at the longtime family home in Kennebunkport, Maine.

Bush was active in campaigning for her sons Jeb, who served as governor of Florida, and George, who was a two-term U.S. president. Only Barbara Bush and Abigail Adams were both the wife and mother of U.S. presidents.

In 2008, Bush underwent surgery for a perforated ulcer and in 2009, she had heart surgery. In 2014, she was hospitalized with respiratory issues.James Comey, whose public persona is based on the image of an upright G-man, has tarnished his own halo.

Most of the mainstream media have been happy to cast the former FBI director in the role of moralizing truth-teller as he takes his battle against President Trump into the book-tour arena. But with his petty criticisms and over-the-top language, Comey is coming off as just another partisan.

ABC's George Stephanopoulos gave Comey a pretty sympathetic forum in which to express regrets about his handling of the Hillary case and paint the man who beat her as unfit for the presidency. And that is likely to be the tenor of most of his interviews.

John Heilemann made a telling observation on MSNBC, that because Comey has infuriated both Democrats and Republicans since the 2016 campaign, he is now a man without a country. In peddling "A Higher Loyalty," Comey is picking sides—as a leader of the anti-Trump forces—and emphasizing that his wife and daughter were both Hillary supporters.

Perhaps it's no accident that he picked Stephanopoulos, who of course worked with Hillary in the Clinton White House, to kick off his television tour. He'll also get a warm reception on "The View." But his Fox News interview comes toward the end of the two-week kickoff.

The president, of course, has not been an idle bystander. He has matched Comey's extreme rhetoric (comparing Trump to a Mafia boss) with equally tough tweets (calling the fired director an "untruthful slime ball"). Just yesterday, Trump tweeted: "Comey drafted the Crooked Hillary exoneration long before he talked to her (lied in Congress to Senator G), then based his decisions on her poll numbers. Disgruntled, he, McCabe, and the others, committed many crimes!" (The DOJ inspector general said Andrew McCabe, Comey’s former deputy who was recently fired, repeatedly lied about his own leaking.)

Stephanopoulos did ask a few hard questions, such as one about Comey's leaks to the press. (Comey's answer -- that he used an intermediary to pass documents to The New York Times because he didn't want to alienate all the other reporters -- was disingenuous.)

But for most of the interview, Stephanopoulos either pressed his guest over his handling of the Hillary probe or encouraged him to unload on Trump:

Why did you hold a news conference and criticize Clinton rather than just issuing a one-sentence release declining prosecution? Why did you go public with reopening the investigation just before the election? Your critics say that’s a clear, clear double standard.

And: Did you think Trump was a liar? Why did you compare him to a Mafia boss? Do you think he's unfit to be president?

The mainstream media have done a series of backflips on Comey: He was the upright, judicious figure who declined to prosecute Clinton. Then he was the reckless egomaniac who intervened in October and handed the presidency to Trump. Now he's back to being the moralistic figure who stood up to Trump and is bravely holding the president accountable.

Partisan commentators on the left and right are also giving me vertigo with the way they’ve swung back and forth on Comey.

My other big beef with the author is the way he keeps broadcasting about what the media now call the "pee tape". Comey readily acknowledges that he has no idea whether the unverified allegation from the unsubstantiated dossier about Trump and Moscow prostitutes is true. But he keeps repeating what journalists used to refer to as unspecified sexual allegations, despite the fact that it may be pure fiction.

The timing of the book is also troubling, since it comes in the midst of the Mueller investigation, with Comey destined to be a key witness. But Comey knows the market is ripe for an anti-Trump book.

One book critic, the Washington Post’s Carlos Lozada, writes: "When Comey cops to petty misdeeds, however, the self-criticism — and self-regard — is almost comical ... But when the stakes rise, self-examination diminishes."

The media are generally treating Jim Comey as a truth-teller. But in going for the big payday, he is confirming the critics' view that he is in love with his own righteousness.Rod Blagojevich's Wife Asks Trump For Pardon, Rips SCOTUS Appeal Rejection

Tucker: Comey-Stephanopoulos Interview Shows 'He Never Should've Been FBI Director'

In her "Angle" commentary, Laura Ingraham ripped California Gov. Jerry Brown and others who oppose President Donald Trump's immigration law enforcement plans.

She said that Democrats are more concerned with growing their voter rolls through naturalizing illegal immigrants than they are with the plight of victims of illegal immigrant criminals.

Ingraham said the father of murdered teen Jamiel Shaw Jr. never heard from President Obama after his son's death, but that Obama took time to speak with women's rights activist Sandra Fluke during her controversy.

Fluke, a law student, was criticized by radio host Rush Limbaugh on February 29, 2012, after she testified before Congress in favor of government-funded contraceptives.

Limbaugh said Obama called her to offer support after her testimony.

Ingraham played tape of Brown sparring with Fox News' Griff Jenkins over questions about his concern for victims of illegal immigrant crimes.

Brown accused Fox News of "scapegoating immigrants" with "biased stories."

Ingraham responded that Brown is "tearing his state apart and endangering his citizens" through his sanctuary state policies.

Watch more above.

WATCH: Tucker Takes On Pro-Amnesty California GOP Congressman

Former First Lady Barbara Bush Dead at Age 92Former First Lady Barbara Bush Dead at Age 92

Hume: Barbara Bush 'A Woman of Enormous Character Who Adored Her Husband'

House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy said fired FBI Director James Comey is being hypocritical in his criticisms of President Donald Trump.

Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican, said "everyone" should know what is in memoranda written by Comey that purportedly chronicles his meetings with Trump.

Tonight: @TGowdySC with his first reaction to Comey's media tour and possible leaks of classified info. And is Stormy relevant to this investigation? — Martha MacCallum (@marthamaccallum) April 17, 2018

Gowdy said that in Comey's book and television interviews, the former lawman speaks about "morality, ethics and truth" but simultaneously "engage[s] in more relativism than any book author I've seen in a long time."

Gowdy noted that Comey considers Trump "unfit for office" because of alleged untoward actions and untruths, yet "gloats" about his own family earnestly supporting Hillary Clinton in 2016 and calling his deputy, Andrew McCabe, a victim.

"All three engaged in the same conduct,” according to Comey, Gowdy said.

Comey told ABC News Trump is "making stuff up" when he tweets about Comey needing to be prosecuted.

Watch more from Gowdy above.

Dana Perino: Barbara Bush Lived a 'Life of Great Consequence'

Rod Blagojevich's Wife Asks Trump For Pardon, Rips SCOTUS Appeal RejectionHannity: Michael Cohen 'Never Represented Me in Any Legal Matter,' Media Outrage Overblown

WATCH: Tucker Takes On Pro-Amnesty California GOP Congressman

Sean Hannity ripped mainstream media personalities attacking him after his name came up in a court proceeding involving President Donald Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen.

Federal Judge Kemba Wood ordered Cohen's own attorney Stephen Ryan to disclose the third name on a list of Cohen clients, which turned out to be Hannity.

Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

Hannity later said Cohen "never represented me in a legal matter" and that the media coverage the court proceeding was overblown.

Hannity said he seems to be the "partisan" press' "new obsession."

He said they are "feigning moral outrage [and] hyperventilating" about him.

"They are frauds, they are partisan hacks, and nothing more than an extension of the Democratic Party," Hannity said.

He said that numerous members of the hard-news press corps never reveal that they have or have had ties to Democratic politics.

Hannity pointed to the recent interview ABC's George Stephanopoulos held with fired FBI Director James Comey.

He said Stephanopoulos never disclosed that he worked on President Clinton's 1992 campaign and later served as adviser and communications director to the 42nd president.

Hannity said his fellow conservatives have joined him in calling out the "massive double standard" he said the press is embodying.

He said that radio host Rush Limbaugh called the attacks "another in a long line and a many-years' effort to destroy the credibility of advocates for conservative... or anti-democratic issues."

Limbaugh said the left and those in the media that are ideologically on that side of the political spectrum demand that "Donald Trump must be sent packing."

"There's so much glaring hypocrisy [and] it really frosts me that that hypocrisy never sticks to these people," he said.

Hannity said the media does not like the political coverage he provides on his 9 p.m. ET eponymous television program and on radio.

Tucker: Comey-Stephanopoulos Interview Shows 'He Never Should've Been FBI Director'

Rod Blagojevich's Wife Asks Trump For Pardon, Rips SCOTUS Appeal RejectionDana Perino: Barbara Bush Lived a 'Life of Great Consequence'

Prominent GOP Trump Critic to Leave Congress in Coming Weeks

Tucker Carlson debated a California Republican who supports a form of amnesty for DREAMers.

Carlson said that Denham, of Stanislaus County in the state's Central Valley, has as many as 50 Republicans on his side that want to "force a House vote" on such immigration proposals.

Carlson told Denham that the rights and wellbeing of American citizens, including Californians, should take precedence over the worries of illegal immigrants.

Denham agreed, but said the issue must be resolved.

"Republicans... were elected to lead," he said, adding that he supports President Donald Trump's border security plans.

"We've got to have a resolution," he said. "We should do both [border security and DREAM Act legislation] at the same time."

Denham said Congress must provide "certainty" for the DREAMers who are contributing members of American society, offering the idea of a fine or fee that they should pay as part of the process.

Carlson said that there are many unemployed Americans that need jobs and personal security first.

"Why would I spend a single second worrying about the job of a foreign citizen," Carlson asked.

Denham said he supports an E-Verify system, but said that "every industrialized nation" has a functioning guest worker program that allows immigrants to work in manufacturing or agriculture.

Watch the full debate above.

Sen. Mark Warner: Trump 'Obsessed' With Mueller Probe, Attacking 'Basic Institutions of Justice'

'Lazy Cheap Shot': 'The Five' Responds to CA Gov. Jerry Brown's Attack on Fox NewsFormer First Lady Barbara Bush Dead at Age 92

Hume: Barbara Bush 'A Woman of Enormous Character Who Adored Her Husband'

Fox News host Dana Perino said former First Lady Barbara Bush's life was "one of great consequence."

Speaking by phone to Tucker Carlson, Perino said Bush was "loved by her family and by the rest of the world."

Perino served as the final press secretary for President George W. Bush, Mrs. Bush's son.

"One of the things that she and George H.W. Bush did in raising their children [was that] they were determined to make sure that everyone knew they were loved unconditionally," she said.

Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She had grit & grace, brains & beauty. She was fierce & feisty in support of her family & friends, her country & her causes. She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like. Hillary and I mourn her passing and bless her memory. — Bill Clinton (@BillClinton) April 17, 2018

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4NzyjxqAFM — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Perino said Mrs. Bush embodied "dignity, grace ... and a sense of humor."

But, she remembered that it was never a good idea to do or say something that would cause Mrs. Bush to disapprove of you.

Perino said that, while dealing daily with the White House press corps, there were times she wanted to be "snarky" and offer a good "one-liner" to a pointed question.

However, she was always mindful that Mrs. Bush could be watching the briefing and that she — like many — found that the option "wasn't worth her not being proud of us."

"It was really special to know her," Perino said.

WATCH: Jenna & Barbara Bush on Growing Up in the Spotlight

"Go Get 'Em": George W. Bush Says ISIS Can Be Degraded and DefeatedTomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

'A Man Without Courage': Dershowitz Slams Comey for Leaking Trump Memos

As James Comey makes the media rounds to promote his new tell-all book, he's defending his decision to speak out about potentially sensitive subjects even though he's a witness in Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia probe.

In an interview with NPR on Tuesday, the former FBI director acknowledged that prosecutors normally don't want their witnesses talking publicly if they will have to testify later, but he argued that in his circumstance his testimony is already "locked down."

"I testified in front of Congress extensively. I wrote memos, I wrote written testimony, and so long as I continue to tell the truth and don't start making stuff up that's inconsistent with that testimony, I don't see an issue," Comey said.

"Special Report" anchor Bret Baier said much of Comey's testimony may already be on the record, but there are a lot of things that he has not yet been asked.

He specifically pointed to "unanswered questions" about the Hillary Clinton email investigation, saying he hopes to get into some of those questions in his interview with Comey that will air on "Special Report" on Thursday, April 26th at 6:00pm ET.

He also said that while Comey's testimony on President Trump and the Russia probe may be "locked down," Comey's perceptions and personal opinions are not, which could complicate Mueller's investigation.

"To get in an interview and essentially encourage voters to vote against President Trump, that is potentially a problem for Robert Mueller, who is probably going to rely on the former FBI director's testimony -- or at least perceptions during the investigation -- as part of his investigation," Baier explained.

Don't miss Baier's interview with Comey on Thursday, April 26th at 6:00pm ET on Fox News Channel.

Blagojevich's Wife Asks Trump For Pardon, Rips SCOTUS Appeal Rejection

Fitton: McCabe Report Shows Obstruction Probe Against Trump Is 'Dead'

Christie: Comey 'Would Have Fired Me on the Spot' If I Did What He DidTomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

'A Man Without Courage': Dershowitz Slams Comey for Leaking Trump Memos

Attorney and former federal judge Ken Starr said he's "deeply disappointed" in James Comey.

The former FBI director has been making the media rounds to promote his new tell-all book, "A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, And Leadership."

In an ABC News interview, Comey said there's "certainly some evidence" that President Trump obstructed justice in the Russia probe, and he also said he believes the author of the infamous anti-Trump dossier is a "credible source."

In his book, according to excerpts, Comey also describes Trump as "untethered to truth" and "ego-driven," describing his presidency as a "forest fire."

Starr, who served as independent counsel investigating President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, said on "The Ingraham Angle" that he's long admired the FBI and the men and women who serve at the bureau.

"I don't think this is besmirching the bureau at all, because the work of the bureau goes on. These are great men and women," Starr said.

He said he's had the privilege of meeting hundreds of FBI agents and officials, and they've all been committed to the integrity and traditions of the bureau.

"And I think we're seeing those dishonored by Mr. Comey," Starr said. "It's a very disappointing display."

Don't miss Bret Baier's interview with James Comey on Thursday, April 26th at 6:00pm ET on Fox News Channel.

Blagojevich's Wife Asks Trump For Pardon, Rips SCOTUS Appeal Rejection

Fitton: McCabe Report Shows Obstruction Probe Against Trump Is 'Dead'

Christie: Comey 'Would Have Fired Me on the Spot' If I Did What He DidDershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office 'Unjustified,' Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) said Tuesday that he sees a double standard in the way Andrew McCabe is being treated by federal authorities compared to other prominent government leaders.

He noted how the former deputy director of the FBI has yet to be prosecuted for lying under oath, while former national security advisor Michael Flynn was indicted for providing a false statement to the FBI while he wasn't under oath.

"That's the kind of stuff that drives Americans crazy," Jordan said.

The report by Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz discusses McCabe authorizing an information leak about the FBI's probe of the Clinton Foundation to the Wall Street Journal, and then misleading investigators about the leak soon after.

Jordan on Friday said the report is troubling and reveals McCabe's "scheming."

Horowitz has been asked to testify in front of the House oversight committee on May 8 about his report, as well as on how the Justice Department handled the Clinton email investigation.

"I look forward to questioning Mr. Horowitz, [but] more importantly I look forward to getting the report and [finding] out what he's discovered over the last year," Jordan said.

Jordan also said he believes the FBI's former director, James Comey, "messed up" the Clinton email probe.

"[Comey] is at the urging of the attorney general, [and] calls the Clinton investigation a 'matter' and not an 'investigation' when everyone knew it was an investigation," he said.

"I just think this guy messed everything up from the get-go, and frankly I don't think he has a whole lot of credibility," he added on "Fox & Friends."

Rep. Jordan Rips McCabe's 'Scheming': 'That's What Troubles All of America'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him'

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for TrumpRod Blagojevich's Wife Asks Trump For Pardon, Rips SCOTUS Appeal Rejection

Tucker: Comey-Stephanopoulos Interview Shows 'He Never Should've Been FBI Director'

Conservative author and attorney David Limbaugh said former FBI Director James Comey is a "publicity hound" and "should be ashamed" in the wake of his new book and interview with George Stephanopoulos.

Limbaugh, the younger brother of radio host Rush Limbaugh, said he gave Comey "every benefit of the doubt" until he heard his interview with Stephanopoulos.

"He thinks of himself as a moral paragon," Limbaugh said. "[But] he's like a gossipy little girl."

Limbaugh slammed Comey for writing about and verbally expounding upon things that are part of an active investigation -- namely regarding President Donald Trump, Russia and Hillary Clinton.

"I cannot believe this guy," he said. "He's a man without a country. Nobody likes him anymore and there's good reason."

Limbaugh added that he wanted to stick to "what the facts allow" thus far.

But, he said Comey was intentionally "inflammatory" by musing as to whether Trump obstructed justice.

"He knows better [and] he should be ashamed," Limbaugh said.

Tomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

'A Man Without Courage': Dershowitz Slams Comey for Leaking Trump Memos'They Don't Want Black Folks Voting': Biden Rips GOP on Voter ID, Trump's 'Lie' on 'Fraud'

'Women Are Dying Because We're Losing': MN Dem Ellison Links GOP Election Wins to Maternal Mortality

What do Democrats do when they have no platform, no policies, no agenda … and no shame? They make stuff up and throw down the victim card – one of the few they have left in the deck.

It’s time for Final Thoughts.

The Democrats are scared, folks. President Trump’s tax cuts are allowing hard-working Americans to keep more of what they earn. And because Democrats would rather win elections than see Americans thrive, they feel threatened.

So how do they respond? They send their best and brightest to a “progressive change” conference to make things up, and weave the victimhood web. Here’s the deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Keith Ellison, talking about maternal mortality rates:

'Women Are Dying Because We're Losing': MN Dem Ellison Links GOP Election Wins to Maternal Mortalityhttps://t.co/0iPWd9zABw — FoxNewsInsider (@FoxNewsInsider) April 16, 2018

Are you kidding me? Is this how you plan to win elections, Mr. Ellison? By blaming the Republican Party and President Trump for the rate of pregnancy-related deaths among women? That’s so outrageous, I doubt even the Democrats believe it.

But it’s not just Keith Ellison stacking the victim card deck. Former Vice President Joe Biden also jumped in, and offered up this little nugget:

'They Don't Want Black Folks Voting': Biden Rips GOP on Voter ID, Trump's 'Lie' on 'Fraud'https://t.co/EpitdT3HuE — FoxNewsInsider (@FoxNewsInsider) April 15, 2018

"Republicans don't want working-class people voting. They don't want black folks voting.”

I don’t know what’s worse: What Biden said, or the fact that some Americans will actually believe what he said. In the meantime, Mr. Biden, let me clear up something for you.

Republicans want voter ID laws because elections should be fair and square. And if we are going to lose elections to people like you, it shouldn’t be due to voter fraud.

I realize the Democratic Party has a love affair with illegal immigration. But your sanctuary doesn’t extend to the voting booth, sorry.

From Ellison to Biden and everywhere in between, we’ve got Democratic leaders counting on the victim card not just this fall, but also in 2020. Instead of advocating for policies and positions that help Americans help themselves, they parade the “poor you” talking points at conferences and on mainstream news. It’s sick, and disheartening.

This country wasn’t founded on handouts, “poor me” thought, or patronization. It was founded on liberty - and the PURSUIT of happiness. It’s troubling the Democrats have largely forgotten both.

Identity politics, victimology, and pandering didn’t work in 2016. And I pray we are strong and smart enough to reject it again this fall, in 2020 - and in all elections to come.

Those are my Final Thoughts. Feel free to disagree. From LA, God Bless and Take Care.

'Remember, It's America First': Tomi Lahren Says Trump Should Pull Out of Syria Entirely

Tomi Lahren on Jay-Z's Trump Criticism: 'The President Is Winning and You Can't Stand It'Prominent GOP Trump Critic to Leave Congress in Coming Weeks

Syrian Refugee Who Survived 2013 Chemical Attack: 'Bad Days of Obama's Inaction Are Over'

Senate Intelligence Committee Vice Chairman Mark Warner said President Donald Trump is "obsessed" with Robert Mueller's Russia probe and that he is besmirching the reputation of law enforcement.

"The president of the United States has been obsessed with this investigation since the beginning," Warner, a Virginia Democrat, told Neil Cavuto.

"I believe Special Prosecutor (sic) Mueller," Warner said. "The law is pretty clear."

Warner appeared to defend the decision to raid Trump attorney Michael Cohen's properties, saying that there was a "high bar to meet" in order to legitimize handing off the procedure to the U.S. District Court in Manhattan, N.Y.

Cavuto asked Warner how the expanding scope of the Mueller probe matched up with how the Starr probe of President Bill Clinton's Whitewater land deal scandal eventually morphed into the Lewinsky affair.

Cavuto said Democrats were critical of prosecutor Ken Starr in that regard.

Warner said he too was critical of Clinton at the time, as many of his Republican counterparts were.

"What particularly concerns me with [Trump] is his broad-based ad hominem attacks at the FBI [and] everyone at the Department of Justice," Warner added.

President Trump's blatant efforts to undermine our law enforcement agencies and the independence of the Special Counsel should trouble us all. Congress and the American people must hold him accountable for any attempt to interfere in this investigation. — Mark Warner (@MarkWarner) April 13, 2018

Warner said Trump's "frustration" with Mueller has led to uncalled-for attacks on "the basic institutions of justice" and "gives license to people who say 'maybe we shouldn't trust any of our law enforcement'."

Warner pointed out that Mueller and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein are "lifelong Republicans."

He also credited competing bills in the House and Senate, one from Reps. Charlie Dent (R-Pa.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and the other from Sens. Chris Coons (D-Del.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) that are aimed at protecting Mueller's job.

Watch more above.

Baier: There Are Many Questions Comey Hasn't Been Asked

FL Motorcycle Dealer Wins Fight Over Military Flags After Vet's Spat With City WorkerStudent Raises Red Flags Over History Textbook's Narrative on Trump, Supporters

GOP Lawmaker: My Colleagues Should 'Cease and Desist' With Anti-FBI Rhetoric

'He Never Laid Out Principles': GOP Rep Says Trump Shares Blame for Repeal Failure

A Pennsylvania Republican known for his vocal opposition to President Donald Trump announced his resignation Tuesday.

U.S. Rep. Charlie Dent of Allentown said in a statement that he will "leave Congress in the coming weeks."

Dent said he discussed the decision with his family and thanked his constituents in the Lehigh Valley for allowing him to serve them.

The seven-term Dent has broken with some of the more conservative members of his party several times in his critiques of Trump.

He recently coauthored a bill with Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.) that would protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller from termination, and has urged colleagues to "speak out" against Trump's actions and rhetoric.

"Disorder, chaos, instability, uncertainty, intemperate statements are not conservative virtues in my opinion," Dent told the Associated Press last month.

Dent appeared to confirm an MSNBC report that Trump once informed Dent that he was "destroying the Republican Party" and would be blamed for a potential failure of the tax reform bill.

"I'm not going to deny that," Dent said.

In January, Dent, who previously announced he would not run for re-election, ripped the president for criticizing officials at the FBI, regarding whether some top brass sought to prevent Trump from being elected.

"No, I don’t believe there is an Illuminati at the FBI," he said. "My colleagues ought to cease and desist from some of this rhetoric."

In October 2016, Dent called for the GOP to abandon Trump as its nominee, saying he could not "defend the indefensible" any longer, in the wake of the Billy Bush tape.

Pennsylvania Gov. Thomas Wolf (D) praised Dent, saying he appreciated the congressman's efforts to advance the "shared interests" of Pennsylvanians.

In the wake of State Supreme Court-drawn redistricting, the Republican contenders for the seat have been whittled down to two.

Former Lehigh County Commissioner Dean Browning of Allentown and Olympic gold medal cyclist Marty Nothstein of Lowhill Township are seeking the Republican nomination against several Democratic hopefuls.

"Charlie Dent was one of those handful of Republicans who wasn't always onboard with the president's agenda [and] it wasn't particularly helpful," RNC spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said on Fox Business Network.

Watch more above.

Stormy Daniels Pressed on Whether Trump Affair Allegations Are a 'Publicity Stunt'

FL Motorcycle Dealer Wins Fight Over Military Flags After Vet's Spat With City Worker

Rep. Blackburn: 'Pres. Trump Is 'Going to Win' Fight Against CA Sanctuary LawFormer First Lady Barbara Bush Dead at Age 92

WATCH: Jenna & Barbara Bush on Growing Up in the Spotlight

Fox News political analyst and longtime Washington journalist Brit Hume said former First Lady Barbara Bush was a "woman of enormous character."

Bush died Tuesday night at the age of 92.

Hume, who covered the Bush 41 White House, said Mrs. Bush also "adored her husband."

"I can only imagine the sense of loss he feels tonight," Hume said of former President George H.W. Bush.

Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She had grit & grace, brains & beauty. She was fierce & feisty in support of her family & friends, her country & her causes. She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like. Hillary and I mourn her passing and bless her memory. — Bill Clinton (@BillClinton) April 17, 2018

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4NzyjxqAFM — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Hume said Mrs. Bush was also "not a mellow first lady" and a person of strong views, but that she managed to be a noncontroversial first lady.

"People saw her character and admired her, and she was indeed admirable," he said.

Hume told Tucker Carlson several sweet and entertaining stories about his encounters with Mrs. Bush.

George W. Bush Visits First TX Elementary School Named After Him

George W. Bush Honors Wounded Warriors by Painting Their PortraitsStudent Raises Red Flags Over History Textbook's Narrative on Trump, Supporters

A motorcycle dealership will not be fined for flying military flags after a warning citation from a Jacksonville, Florida, city employee led to a verbal altercation with a veteran.

A manager at Jaguar Power Sports said in a now-viral Facebook video that Melinda Power, the city's code compliance officer, issued citations for each of the flags flying outside the business.

He also said that Power insulted a veteran in the store who was upset by the citations.

According to FOX-30, the veteran was asked by Power what he did for his country.

The man reportedly replied, "I took three bullets to the leg. I almost lost my life for this country. I'm retired. I'm a veteran."

Power is said to have become confrontational and told him, "You did nothing for this country."

Jacksonville Mayor Lenny Curry later said the flags will be allowed to fly and that the city's employees are "expected to be respectful." Curry's chief of staff said the mayor's office was "disturbed" by the alleged behavior of Power and the matter is being reviewed.

1. I Have directed city staff that military flags should be treated same as US flag. Let them fly. I Have reached out to the business owner & will review employee procedures. COJ employees r expected to be respectful of our customers - you, the people of Jacksonville. — Lenny Curry (@lennycurry) April 16, 2018

2. We support our military and veterans, and we appreciate businesses who honor their service. — Lenny Curry (@lennycurry) April 16, 2018

David Limbaugh Blasts Comey: 'Gossipy Little Girl' Should Be 'Ashamed' of Book

'This May Very Well Be a Trap': Judge Nap Says Cohen in 'Extremely Dangerous' Spot

Hannity: Michael Cohen 'Never Represented Me in Any Legal Matter,' Media Outrage OverblownWATCH: Jenna & Barbara Bush on Growing Up in the Spotlight

"Go Get 'Em": George W. Bush Says ISIS Can Be Degraded and Defeated

Former First Lady Barbara Bush died Tuesday evening at the age of 92.

Martha MacCallum likened her to "a grandmother to the entire country" and a "matriarch of a huge clan of lovely family members."

The wife of former President George H.W. Bush was in “failing health” over the weekend, according to a family statement.

“Following a recent series of hospitalizations, and after consulting her family and doctors, Mrs. Bush, now age 92, has decided not to seek additional medical treatment and will instead focus on comfort care. It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others,” the statement read.

Spokesman Jim McGrath did not immediately expound upon Bush’s health condition over the weekend other than to say she was surrounded by her family and appreciates the messages and prayers she received.

Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She had grit & grace, brains & beauty. She was fierce & feisty in support of her family & friends, her country & her causes. She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like. Hillary and I mourn her passing and bless her memory. — Bill Clinton (@BillClinton) April 17, 2018

The former Barbara Pierce was born June 8, 1925 in New York.

She married George Herbert Walker Bush in 1945. They have six children, including former President George W. Bush, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, and author Dorothy Bush Koch.

Mrs. Bush and former First Lady Abigail Adams also hold the rare title of the only first ladies to be the mother of presidents.

She was also the recipient of the Miss America Women of Achievement award in 1997 for her longtime work in support of literacy programs.

"My dear mother has passed on at age 92. Laura, Barbara, Jenna, and I are sad, but our souls are settled because we know hers was. Barbara Bush was a fabulous First Lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love, and literacy to millions. To us, she was so much more. Mom kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end. I’m a lucky man that Barbara Bush was my mother.," her son, former President George W. Bush, said in a statement Tuesday.

Watch more above.

George W. Bush Visits First TX Elementary School Named After Him

George W. Bush Honors Wounded Warriors by Painting Their PortraitsSen. Mark Warner: Trump 'Obsessed' With Mueller Probe, Attacking 'Basic Institutions of Justice'

Prominent GOP Trump Critic to Leave Congress in Coming Weeks

The hosts of "The Five" responded to California Gov. Jerry Brown (D), who said that Fox News "exploits" the illegal immigration issue.

Fox News correspondent Griff Jenkins asked Brown whether his sanctuary state law "favors the rights of criminal illegal aliens over the rights and safety of [immigrant] communities."

Brown fired back that the question's premise was "absolutely false" and an "outlandish Fox proposition."

He said President Donald Trump's administration is "waging war on California."

Jesse Watters called Brown's remarks a "lazy cheap shot" and the four-term governor's attempt to find "an easy way out" of a "tough question."

"He could've said something really heartfelt [to] bridge the [ideological] divide," Watters said.

Greg Gutfeld, a California native, said Brown's remarks bring back memories of the "worst thing about my childhood."

Gutfeld reminded the audience that, before Brown's most recent tenure in Sacramento, he also served as California's governor in the 1970s and was also the mayor of Oakland for a time.

"You want to [also] bring back my chickenpox?" Gutfeld remarked. "[California] keeps going back to an ex that made their lives miserable in the '70s."

Syrian Refugee Who Survived 2013 Chemical Attack: 'Bad Days of Obama's Inaction Are Over'

Baier: There Are Many Questions Comey Hasn't Been AskedPop Star Forgets National Anthem Lyrics & Has to Start Over... Twice

Super Bowl Champ Owens: Pride in Country, Flag & Culture Is Bottom Line

Adidas is interested in signing free agent NFL quarterback Colin Kaepernick -- if he signs with a team first.

“If he signs on a team, we would definitely want to sign him," Mark King, the president of Adidas's North America division, said, according to AZ Central.

King noted that Adidas doesn't want to give the impression it's "taking advantage of this noise or interest that [Kaepernick] had generated."

“We love athletes that have a platform to make the world a better place,” King said. “If they’re an activist in a way that brings attention to something that moves the world forward, even if there’s controversy at that moment, we’re really interested in those athletes because I think it represents the world today.”

He added that Adidas is in the business of sport, not activism, but he said allowing athletes to tell their stories is "really important" to the company.

Kaepernick, 30, started the trend of NFL players refusing to stand for the anthem in 2016 when he protested against racial inequality and police brutality. Although the former 49ers quarterback remained a free agent the entire 2017 NFL season, other players and teams continued to protest, which was a major source of controversy for the league.

Kaepernick's scheduled workout with the Seattle Seahawks last week was postponed when he declined to say he would stop kneeling during the national anthem, ESPN reported.

Kaepernick reportedly does not have any other workouts scheduled with the Seahawks or other NFL teams.

In October, Kaepernick filed a collusion grievance against NFL owners, alleging he was being blackballed due to his anthem protest.

WATCH: Coal Miner Sings National Anthem Before Going Underground

Country Star Jessie James Decker on Why She Stands for the Anthem

Cowboys Owner: I 'Appreciate' President Trump's Input on Anthem ProtestsGOP Rep, Retired Navy SEAL: Trump's Syria Action 'Measured, Calculated'

Tucker: Comey Interview Shows 'He Never Should've Been FBI Director'

A Syrian refugee is thanking President Trump after a U.S.-led coalition launched airstrikes in Syria to punish the regime of Syrian President Bashar Assad for a suspected chemical weapons attack on civilians.

Kassem Eid, who survived a 2013 Syrian chemical attack, said in a CNN interview on Saturday that he would like to buy Trump a beer and speak to him about just how bad the situation in Syria is.

Eid also said he would tell Trump that he has a "big heart."

"At least a lot more bigger than Obama because you actually tried to do something. We need real, long-term commitment to bring peace to Syria," Eid said.

“Trump, I’ll buy you a beer” -- Kassem Eid, a survivor of 2013 chemical weapons attack in Syria following missile strikes by U.S., U.K. and France.https://t.co/Ufb1JCvk66 — Ana Cabrera (@AnaCabrera) April 14, 2018

On "Fox & Friends" on Tuesday, Eid said the Syrian people just want peace, freedom and democracy, but the country's civil war has continued for years and left hundreds of thousands dead, with no end in sight.

"U.S. strikes against Assad meant the world to us, because it showed us that the United States actually cares and the bad days of Obama's inaction are over, hopefully forever," Eid said.

"We wish that President Trump will double down on his action and go and bomb 'Animal Assad' back to the zoo."

Pence to Russia: 'You're On the Wrong Side of History'

Oliver North: Syria Strike Sends 'Important Message' to 'Enablers' Iran, Russia

Tomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

'A Man Without Courage': Dershowitz Slams Comey for Leaking Trump MemosLewandowski: Comey and McCabe 'Two Liars Lying About Each Other'

'Women Are Dying Because We're Losing': MN Dem Ellison Links GOP Election Wins to Maternal Mortality

Greg Gutfeld reacted to ABC News' George Stephanopoulos' Sunday interview with fired FBI Director James Comey.

Gutfeld said that the audience could feel the "affection" between Stephanopoulos - who served as President Bill Clinton's White House communications director - and Comey.

In the interview, Comey said his wife and at least four of his five kids supported Hillary Clinton and also marched in the anti-Trump Women's March in 2017.

"Professing your family's love for Hillary is like a tornado praising a trailer park it just destroyed," Gutfeld said, alluding to the fact both pro-Trump and pro-Clinton factions hold disdain for Comey.

"She's as sick of you as we are," he said.

Gutfeld said that, for both sides of the political divide, the Comey interview validated their beliefs.

"It's junk food for the soul," he said.

'They Don't Want Black Folks Voting': Biden Rips GOP on Voter ID, Trump's 'Lie' on 'Fraud'

Pirro Blasts 'Pompous, Egotistical, Patronizing Liar' Jim Comey and 'Self-Absorbed' MemoirTucker: Comey-Stephanopoulos Interview Shows 'He Never Should've Been FBI Director'

Tomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

A former San Diego city councilman spoke to Martha MacCallum about his effort to fight back against Gov. Jerry Brown's (D-Calif.) sanctuary state law.

The city council in California's second largest municipality will vote Monday on whether they will abide by the law some claim is antithetical to existing federal statutes, MacCallum said.

Carl DeMaio, a Republican, said the issue is not about immigration or racism.

"We are proud of the fact that America was built [by] immigrants," he said. "There's a lot of misinformation out there."

He said San Diego prides itself on "diversity and tranquility" and that the sanctuary state law is really about protecting convicts.

"The only people who are for the [sanctuary state law] are criminals and Sacramento politicians," he said.

DeMaio said the law puts immigrants at risk, while Democratic leadership claims the opposite.

Watch more above.

'A Man Without Courage': Dershowitz Slams Comey for Leaking Trump Memos

Bongino Rips Comey for Trump 'Mob Boss' Comparison: 'He's an Embarrassment to the FBI'Rod Blagojevich's Wife Asks Trump For Pardon, Rips SCOTUS Appeal Rejection

Tucker: Comey-Stephanopoulos Interview Shows 'He Never Should've Been FBI Director'

Sean Hannity responded to recent developments that he had been named as Trump attorney Michael Cohen's third "client."

Judge Kimba Wood, a federal judge in Lower Manhattan, N.Y., ordered Cohen's attorneys to name the third person whom Cohen had listed as a client - besides President Trump and a former GOP finance chairman.

Stephen Ryan testified that Hannity was Cohen's third client.

Hannity responded to the ensuing media reportage, telling his audience that Cohen never represented him in any legal matter and that he never "retained [Cohen's] services."

Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

I assumed those conversations were confidential, but to be absolutely clear they never involved any matter between me and a third-party. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

In response to some wild speculation, let me make clear that I did not ask Michael Cohen to bring this proceeding on my behalf, I have no personal interest in this proceeding, and, in fact, asked that my de minimis discussions with Michael Cohen, — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

which dealt almost exclusively about real estate, not be made a part of this proceeding. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

He said he has asked Cohen for "input and perspective" in matters mostly relating to real estate, in which the attorney is well-versed.

Hannity said the conversations "never rose to any level that I needed to tell anyone that I was asking him questions."

He said he has no personal interest in the Cohen matter.

Hannity said the media should instead focus on the "forgotten men and women" of America, the economy and national security.

Tomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

David Limbaugh: Comey, 'Gossipy Little Girl,' Should 'Be Ashamed' of BookA woman who died Tuesday after an engine on a Southwest Airlines flight apparently exploded mid-flight has been identified and described as a "remarkable" woman.

Jennifer Riordan, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, was a mother of two and a Wells Fargo bank executive. She was taken to a Pennsylvania hospital in critical condition after Flight 1380 made an emergency landing at Philadelphia International Airport around 11:20 a.m.

Witnesses told WCAU that a woman was "partially sucked out" of an airplane window and shrapnel from the exploded engine smashed it, but it remains unclear whether Riordan was that passenger.

Riordan worked as a vice president of community relations for Wells Fargo, and was a graduate of the University of New Mexico. Her death was confirmed by her family Tuesday.

SOUTHWEST AIRLINES PLANE'S ENGINE EXPLODES; 1 PASSENGER DEAD

"Jennifer's vibrancy, passion and love infused our community and reached across our country. Her impact on everything and everyone she touched can never be fully measured," the statement, published by WFAA-TV, read. She was further described as "the bedrock of our family."

A close friend of Riordan told KOB that the mother of two, who was married to Michael Riordan, who served until recently as the chief operating officer for the city of Albuquerque, "never forgot the [New Mexico Broadcasters Association] and supported the foundation however she could." The friend added that "Jennifer was a remarkable mother and part of the NMBA family."

The Mayor of Albuequerque, Tim Keller, said in a statement that Riordan was a "thoughtful leader who has long been a part of the fabric of our community."

"We are asking that everyone respects the privacy of the family at this time. This is a tremendous and tragic loss for Jennifer’s family and many others throughout our city. Her leadership and philanthropic efforts made this a better place every day and she will be terribly missed," the mayor said. "We are holding Jennifer and her family in our thoughts and prayers.”

Riordan's death was the first passenger fatality on a U.S. airline since 2009, and the first-ever for Southwest Airlines, according to company CEO Gary Kelly.

Meantime, the Southwest Airlines pilot who called for emergency services to be prepared on scene upon the plane's landing is being hailed as a "hero" for successfully landing the plane without more passengers being injured.

"Pilot Tammie Jo Shults and her crew are heroes," wrote Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton. Schults and the five crewmembers aboard the 144-passenger flight "managed to land @SouthwestAir #Flight1380 (bound for Dallas) and prevent further casualties," Paxton said.

Schults, according to her alma mater MidAmerica Nazarene University, was one of the first female fighter pilots for the U.S. Navy.

CEO Kelly said Tuesday that Schults and the flight crew "handled the situation magnificently" and "did their jobs superbly." While he didn't identify any of the five crewmembers, Kelly said the captain was "very experienced" and started at the airline in 1994.

The Boeing 737 was flying from New York's LaGuardia Airport to Dallas' Love Field Tuesday when it made the emergency landing on the runway of Philadelphia International Airport.

The emergency landing came after the crew reported damage to one of the engines, the fuselage and at least one window, the Federal Aviation Administration said.

Joe Marcus, a passenger on Flight 1380, told Fox News' Martha MacCallum on "The Story" Tuesday night that as the incident unfolded, he heard a "big boom," and when he looked to his left, saw the engine was "totally black."

Marcus, largely calm in the situation, said that although it "felt like we were just falling from the sky," he "tried to stay positive" as others on the plane panicked.

The passenger said he was trying to purchase WiFi on the airplane to contact loved ones, as so many others on the plane were trying to do in what they believed could've been their last moments, but noted that as soon as he saw the runway, he knew they were in the clear.

"When [the plane] hit the ground, I felt like I hit the lottery," Marcus said.

Marcus reiterated CEO Kelly's remarks about the flight crew, detailing that the flight attendants were helpful in the chaotic situation, and that it was "unbelievable how [Pilot Schults] turned it around."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Barbara Bush may be remembered as one of the most influential Americans ever.

Married 73 years, she and George H.W. Bush were joined in matrimony longer than any other presidential couple in American history.

Other than Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams, the nation’s second president, and mother of John Quincy Adams, the sixth president, Bush was one of only two first ladies who also was the mother of a president.

The couple’s relationship is a true love story.

“You have given me joy that few men know,” George H.W. Bush wrote to her, according to a collection of letters published in 1999.

“I have climbed perhaps the highest mountain in the world, but even that cannot hold a candle to being Barbara’s husband,” he also said.

Their lifelong love began when they met at a Christmas dance. She was 17. He was 18.

The former president was a naval aviator in training when they met.

“I’m not much at recalling what people wear, but that particular occasion stands out in my memory,” the president wrote in his autobiography.

The band was playing Glenn Miller tunes and he asked a friend from Rye, N.Y., if he knew the girl across the room in the green and red holiday dress.

The friend introduced him to Barbara Pierce, a publisher’s daughter from Rye who was going to school in South Carolina.

The next song was a waltz.

“Since I didn’t waltz, we sat the dance out. And several more after that, talking and getting to know each other,” George H.W. Bush said. “It was a storybook meeting.”

Within eight months, they’d met each other’s families. The couple got engaged in August 1943 and married Jan. 6, 1945, four months after Bush was shot down over the Pacific.

He’d been the Navy’s youngest aviator when he got his wings, and carried the name “Barbara” on his Grumman Avenger torpedo bomber.

“George Bush knows how I feel,” Barbara Bush had said. “He is the hero. ... He is my hero.”

After the war, he attended Yale and they moved to Texas.

Her husband made his mark in the oil business as they grew their family and turned to politics, a journey that would take them around the world and into the White House.

In her 1994 memoir, Barbara Bush described her and her husband as “the two luckiest people in the world, and when all the dust is settled and all the crowds are gone, the things that matter are faith, family and friends. We have been inordinately blessed, and we know that.”

Before she died, granddaughter Jenna Bush Hager described the Bushes’ love as “remarkable.”

The former president “still says, ‘I love you, Barbie,’ every night,” Hager said on NBC’s “Today,” where she works, before her grandmother’s death.

The couple had six children, including Hager’s father, former president George W. Bush.

George H.W. Bush, 93, has described Barbara as “the mainstay, of course, the parent who was always there to help solve the daily problems and emergencies of teen and preteen life.”

Over the decades, the Bushes were captured in photographs in moments of care, such as when Barbara Bush applied sunscreen to the 41st president’s nose at a 2015 baseball game between the Houston Astros and Seattle Mariners; and candor, notably after Bush stepped on his wife’s toe in 1989 while boarding Air Force One.

Their marriage also endured more serious trials.

Their daughter Robin died in 1953 of leukemia a few weeks before her 4th birthday.

Barbara Bush also recalled a bout of depression in the mid-1970s.

“Night after night, George held me weeping in his arms while I tried to explain my feelings,” she said. “I almost wonder why he didn’t leave me.”

In 2013, she told C-SPAN in an interview that they prayed aloud each night, “and sometimes we fight over whose turn it is.”

In the same conversation, she said she didn’t fear death for herself or “my precious George.”

“I know there is a great God, and I’m not worried,” she said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.President Trump sharply rebuked Turkey for the ongoing trial of detained American pastor Andrew Brunson late Thursday, tweeting that he is "being persecuted in Turkey for no reason."

Brunson, who is accused of espionage and aiding terror groups, should be allowed to "alowed to come home to his beautiful family where he belongs," Trump said.

The tweet was not the first time Trump has voiced support for the imprisoned pastor. Last May, in a face-to-face meeting with Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan in Washington, Trump called for Brunson's release, the White House said at the time.

But Trump's pointed condemnation Thursday highlighted the increased stakes now that formal proceedings against Brunson have begun. The pastor faces up to 35 years in prison if convicted of the espionage-related crimes.

And the dustup comes amid tensions between the U.S. and Turkey over the conflict in Syria, where Turkish officials have claimed the U.S. is intentionally stalling the fight against Islamic State militants.

Turkey says Brunson, 50, conspired with exiled Turkish Imam Fethullah Gulen, the Pennsylvania resident who Erdogan says orchestrated the July 2016 coup attempt against his government.

US PASTOR DENIES ALLEGATIONS, SAYS 'I LOVE TURKEY'

That failed coup led to a sweeping government crackdown against suspected dissidents, and Brunson was initially held in October 2016 on immigration-related offenses.

Turkey also claims Brunson passed along state secrets and intelligence that might be useful in the event of a war, such as the location of railway stations.



The American Center for Law and Justice (ACLJ), which is helping to represent Brunson, said he was held for nearly a year and a half without being formally charged.

"They call him a Spy, but I am more a Spy than he is," Trump wrote, after calling Brunson a "fine gentleman and Christian leader in the United States."

TURKEY SEEKS TO EXTEND STATE OF EMERGENCY AFTER 2016 COUP -- FOR THE 7TH TIME

In a hearing Monday, Brunson, appearing gaunt, categorically denied the allegations against him.

"I am a Christian pastor,” Brunson said during the hearing. “I did not join an Islamic movement. Their aims and mine are different."

The U.S. has a team in Turkey observing the trial, including former Kansas Sen. Sam Brownback, the U.S. Ambassador at Large for Religious Freedom.

The ACLJ has called the prosecution outrageous.

“He has done nothing," the ACLJ senior counsel CeCei Heil said. "He is an innocent pastor who has simply lived out his faith in Turkey."A gaunt and reportedly demoralized American pastor detained in Turkey pleaded his innocence in a courtroom on Monday, denying charges he committed military espionage and that he’s aligned with a terrorist group. He faces a possible 35-year sentence, if convicted.

"I am a Christian pastor,” Andrew Brunson said during the hearing. “I did not join an Islamic movement. Their aims and mine are different."

The Turkish government has charged the 50-year-old American of being a terrorist. But his attorneys claim the Christian minister, who has shepherded a small church in Turkey for 23 years, is a political pawn.

"How could [Turkey], with a straight face, put forth this indictment that they know...we're going to read and see right through their scam that they have nothing on Pastor Brunson,” said CeCei Heil with the American Center for Law and Justice, which is helping to represent Brunson. “He has done nothing. He is an innocent pastor who has simply lived out his faith in Turkey."

The Turkish Government has accused Brunson of being a co-conspirator of the exiled Turkish Imam – Fethullah Gulen. Turkey President Tayyip Erdogan said Gulen orchestrated the failed coup attempt in 2016, from his home in Pennsylvania.

Part of the 62-page indictment against Brunson cites secret witnesses and covert espionage tactics. It reads, in part, that he's guilty of, "committing crimes on behalf of the organization despite not being a member of the organization, and disclosing State information that must remain confidential for political or military espionage."

Turkey has filed extradition papers with the U.S. against Gulen, which are still being reviewed.

The State Department has called the charges against Brunson ridiculous and has asked for his release.

President Trump and Vice President Pence have both brought up Brunson's case with President Erdogan, asking for his release. The U.S. has a team in Turkey observing the trial. It includes former Kansas Sen. Sam Brownback, the U.S. Ambassador at Large for Religious Freedom.

"The administration is deeply concerned about this case,” Brownback said. “We completely believe factually he is innocent."

Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., a member of the Armed Services Committee, is part of the team in Turkey.

“This pastor was in the United States after the coup and after Erdogan was rounding up people all across the country,” he told Fox News last Friday. “Does anybody really believe that he would have traveled back to a country that he felt like he could have been swept up into that?"

Meanwhile, the year and a half of imprisonment has taken a personal toll on Brunson and his family.

“He's demoralized because he's been in prison for months even though he's innocent,” said Ismail Cem Halavurt, his Turkish defense attorney. “He missed his daughter's wedding, he missed his child's graduation. He is demoralized for staying in prison for so long despite not having committed a crime."

His daughter, Jacqueline Furnari, said her father feels broken and very confused, but that his faith has been strengthened.

"He's been digging into his relationship with God," she said, "and then giving everything to him and saying God my life is in your hands your will be done and this is all to your glory."President Donald Trump announced Tuesday that North Korea and South Korea will be meeting to end their decades-long war -- and both countries have his “blessing.”

The president also noted that the U.S. has started to engage “at very high levels” with North Korea, ahead of a much-anticipated meeting between Trump and dictator Kim Jong Un set for later this year.

“South Korea is meeting and has plans to meet with North Korea to see if they can end the war,” Trump said at his Florida home at Mar-a-Lago, with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe by his side. “They have my blessing on that.”

The war began in 1950. Without ever signing a peace treaty, North and South Korea are technically still at war.

South Korean President Moon Jae-in and North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un are set to hold a summit on April 27 in a village on the border, South Korean media and Reuters reported.

South Korean presidential chief of staff Im Jong-seok told reporters Tuesday that his country would hold “working-level” talks on Wednesday and that they may be sending officials to North Korea before next week’s summit for planning purposes.

He also said that the meeting between the two leaders “will confirm the denuclearization” of North Korea.

“We expect the summit will confirm the denuclearization will (of North Korea), and hope to have a comprehensive agreement with the North on the matter,” he said.

An early report also seemed to confirm that at the summit the two sides may announce an official end to the military standoff on the Korean peninsula, Bloomberg reported.

Citing an unidentified South Korean official, the report said neighboring countries may issue a joint statement announcing a relief in military tension and a plan to end confrontation.

President Trump took credit for the open dialogue saying that “without us, without me in particular, I guess you would have to say that they wouldn’t be discussing anything.”

He also talked about meetings between himself and Kim Jong Un, saying it most likely would take place in “early June.”

“We will be having meetings with Kim Jong Un very soon,” he said before adding, “assuming things go well.”

He also said, “Its possible things won’t go well and we won’t have the meeting and we’ll just continue to go along this very strong path that we’ve taken.”

After a tense back and forth between the United States and North Korea over its continued use of its continued use of its weapons program and nuclear testing, Trump announced last month that he would be meeting with Kim later this year.During a terrifying Southwest flight that suffered a midair engine explosion Tuesday, a passenger was “partially sucked out” of the airplane’s window after a piece of shrapnel reportedly broke through, leaving one person dead and seven others injured.

While movies often depict exaggerated scenes of passengers being sucked out of planes, in reality it doesn’t usually happen so dramatically. But as the recent Southwest incident proves, it is possible. In fact, this isn’t the first time something like this has occurred.

SOUTHWEST FLIGHT WITH WOMAN 'PARTIALLY SUCKED OUT' MARKS SECOND HORRIFIC TRIP FOR CARRIER THIS WEEK

In 2016, a passenger was sucked out of a gaping hole after a possible bomb attack on a Daallo Airlines flight over Somalia, the New York Post reported. In 1988, an 18-foot section of an Aloha Airline’s cabin roof ripped off and a flight attendant was ejected from the plane, according to Slate.

These instances occur due to an “explosive decompression,” when the pressurized air inside an aircraft leaves the cabin at a fast rate, according to Decoded Science. But not every instance of explosive decompression will lead to people being sucked out of the plane.

While large-scale structural failures can cause dangerous rapid decompression, a small hole in the plane’s fuselage won’t necessarily have the same disastrous results, Patrick Smith, an airline pilot and author of Cockpit Confidential, told Business Insider.

Jonathan Franklin, a commercial pilot with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, said the air pressure difference inside and outside the plane at cruising altitude isn’t typically enough to go “full vacuum cleaner” whenever a hole punctures the cabin. “Initially there will be a rush of air, enough to blow loose papers and items of clothing around. About one second later, the pressure inside and outside equalizes, and you’re just left with air rushing past the hole in the fuselage,” Franklin wrote in a blog post for the airline.

“It will be noisy, it will be cold (thermodynamics, lower air pressures create lower temperatures), and your oxygen mask will drop, but it won’t be those images of bodies being sucked into oblivion as 007 grips onto the gold-frilled curtains for dear life,” he wrote.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Southwest Airlines is still working with the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) after Tuesday’s tragedy and said in a statement they are “in the process of gathering additional information" regarding the flight to figure out what caused the deadly event.article

Wells Fargo on Tuesday expressed condolences to the family of Jennifer Riordan, a New Mexico-based community relations executive at the bank who died from injuries sustained when a Southwest Airlines plane blew an engine in midair.

Continue Reading Below

“The Wells Fargo family is saddened to learn of the death of our friend and colleague Jennifer Riordan – a Community Relations leader in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She was a well-known leader who was loved and respected. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends. Out of respect for the family and their privacy, we’ve nothing more to share at this time," the bank said in a statement.

Riordan was a mother of two children and the wife of Michael Riordan, the former chief operating officer for the city of Albuquerque, New Mexico, WTXF reported. A vice president at Wells Fargo, she had worked in the communications and community relations industry for more than two decades.

New Mexico Gov. Susana Martinez also extended sympathies to Riordan’s family.

Riordan was hit by shrapnel after the Boeing 737 plane’s engine exploded during a flight from New York to Dallas, damaging the plane’s fuselage and shattering a window. Flight 1380 made an emergency landing in Philadelphia.

The National Transportation Safety Board is investigating the circumstances that led to the incident, which marked the first U.S. passenger fatality on a domestic carrier’s plane since 2009.An engine cowling belonging to the Southwest Airlines jet that blew an engine in mid-air Tuesday -- killing one passenger -- has been found in Bernville, Pa., about 70 miles west of Philadelphia, the National Transportation Safety Board said late Tuesday.

The deadly mid-air engine blast at 30,000 feet forced the Boeing 737 to an emergency landing, WFMZ-TV reported.

Seven other passengers were injured from flying shrapnel on the New York-to-Dallas flight

A preliminary investigation reportedly showed signs that one of the engine’s fan blades had separated and induced “metal fatigue,” NTSB Chairman Robert Sumwalt said.

The engine will be examined further to understand what caused the failure. An investigation could take 12 to 15 months, officials said.

Photos of the plane on the tarmac showed a missing window and a chunk gone from the left engine, including part of its cover.

As a precaution, Southwest said Tuesday night that it will inspect similar engines in its fleet over the next 30 days.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Three dead bodies were discovered Tuesday in a parked vehicle in Burbank, Calif., near Los Angeles, police said.

The vehicle had been spotted around noon Monday in a no-parking zone by Lisa Alvarez, who works nearby.

"It caught my attention because it wasn't supposed to be parked there, but it didn't look suspicious. I thought, 'Oh that car is going to get a ticket,'" she said.

According to FOX 11, police received a call about a “foul smell” coming from the parked vehicle.

A parking officer discovered one person inside the vehicle around 7 a.m., the Los Angeles Times reported.

The two other bodies were discovered after paramedics arrived. All three were pronounced dead at the scene, police said.

Sgt. Derek Green of the Burbank Police Department called the discovery, “homicide involving a parked vehicle.”

Police said the vehicle has Tennessee license plates and believe the bodies may have been “dumped” at the location, but don’t know precisely how long ago.

Per chance the bodies had been killed someplace else and dumped in Burbank, the investigation would involve multiple agencies, police said.The Philadelphia Police Department released audio recordings Tuesday of the call placed by a Starbucks employee last week claiming two black men wouldn’t leave the store, ultimately leading to their arrests.

The controversial arrests sparked outrage and protests in the city earlier this week.

The call to police was brief and a woman could be heard telling dispatch that there were “two gentlemen in my café that are refusing to make a purchase or leave.”

The caller said she was at Starbucks and provided the address before being told that police would be sent there as soon as possible.

A series of other communications seemingly between dispatch and responding officers followed the initial recording. At one point, someone referred to the situation as a “disturbance.”

OFFICERS IN STARBUCKS INCIDENT ‘DID ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG,’ PHILADELPHIA POLICE CHIEF SAYS

Video of the arrests was shared on social media and shows several officers on scene while the individuals were handcuffed and escorted from the establishment. A man, who said he was meeting the two other men there, can be heard asking why they were being arrested and what they did wrong. That person called the incident “ridiculous.”

Philadelphia Police Commissioner Richard Ross on Saturday defended the actions of his officers who he maintained “did absolutely nothing wrong.”

In a Facebook video he posted, Ross said the department received a call that the men were “trespassing.” After officers arrived, he said an employee told them that the men came into the cafe and wanted to use the bathroom but were not allowed to do so because they hadn’t bought anything, which Ross said is against company policy.

He said the men were asked to leave three times but refused. They were arrested before ultimately being released by authorities, he said.

STARBUCKS ISSUES APOLOGY OVER ARREST OF TWO MEN

Starbucks apologized on Saturday for the incident. In a statement, the company’s CEO Kevin Johnson said that he wanted to personally apologize to the men, adding that the company “stands firmly against discrimination or racial profiling.” The Associated Press confirmed with Starbucks that Johnson and the two men met on Monday but no details were provided.

The outlet also confirmed with the company that the employee who placed the call to authorities no longer works at that location.

The chain announced Tuesday that more than 8,000 of its U.S. stores will close for several hours on May 29 to hold racial-bias training.

Fox News’ Travis Fedschun, Paulina Dedaj and The Associated Press contributed to this report.The head of the conservative House Freedom Caucus has asked the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to take a closer look at emails and texts between demoted FBI officials Peter Strzok and Lisa Page that previously had been given to Congress.

In a letter to Oversight Committee chairman Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., claimed recently uncovered documents "suggest a concerning level of coordination between the Department of Justice and the FBI throughout crucial moments of the investigation into [Hillary] Clinton’s private email server."

Meadows' claim contradicts repeated statements by former FBI Director James Comey, who has said the bureau and the DOJ did not coordinate on his July 2016 statement recommending Clinton not be charged for keeping classified information on her personal email server.

"Given the tone of Director Comey’s sworn testimony, and his stated intention to continue to publicly speaking about the investigation in support of his new book," Meadows wrote, "we believe it is important to further examine whether his previous statements before Congress and the American people were misleading."

Meadows quoted a July 1, 2016 text exchange between Strzok and Page about then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch's pledge to accept Comey's recommendations in the email case.

"Timing looks like hell," Strzok wrote. "Will appear choreographed. All major news networks literally leading with ‘AG to accept FBI [Director's] recommendation.’"

"Yeah, that is awful timing," Page answered. "Nothing we can do about it."

"What I meant was," Strzok said, "did DOJ tell us yesterday they were doing this, so [Comey] added that language."

Page texted back: "I think we had some warning of it. I know they sent some statement to [Comey chief of staff James] Rybicki bc he called andy [Deputy FBI Director Andrew McCabe]."

Meadows said the cryptic conversation "raises concerns the FBI learned former Attorney General Lynch would accept Director Comey’s recommendation, leading him to add the 'no coordination' language to his public comments on July 5th 2016.”

He added, "These texts exchanged between Lisa Page and Peter Strzok also raise concerns DOJ sent remarks related to the ‘no coordination’ language to James Rybicki, Director Comey’s former Chief of Staff."

According to Meadows, another document indicated that McCabe "reached out to ask that we set up another DOJ/FBI meeting to discuss developments in MYE (midyear exam)." MYE is the code for the Clinton email case.

"It is very possible former Director Comey did not coordinate specifics of his statement with the Deputy Attorney General [Sally Yates]. However, the documents suggest that at the staff-level, coordination on the Clinton MYE investigation was frequent," Meadows wrote.

Gowdy told Fox News' "The Story" Tuesday night that he had read Meadows' letter and planned to forward it to Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz.

"I think it fits most neatly within what Horowitz is doing now, which is looking at just how unprecedented this investigation was in 2016," Gowdy said.

The FBI and Justice Department did not immediately respond to Fox News’ requests for comment.

Fox News’ Samuel Chamberlain contributed to this report.Editor’s Note: Facebook is cracking down on Conservative content. To ensure you receive conservative and faith-based news items – click here for a free subscription to Todd’s newsletter.

A decorated Army chaplain is facing what his attorneys are calling a “career-ending punishment” after he explained to a soldier that he could not conduct a marriage retreat that included same sex couples.

A military investigation at Fort Bragg determined Chaplain Scott Squires should be disciplined for his failure to include a lesbian couple in the Strong Bonds Marriage Retreat. They determined he had discriminated against a soldier based on her sexual orientation.

When Squires realized he could not participate, he rescheduled the event to accommodate the lesbian couple with a chaplain who could oversee the retreat. But apparently – that was not good enough.

“The Army EO policy states that no service will be denied to any member of the Armed Service regardless of race, color, national origin, gender, religious affiliation, or sexual orientation,” read a report from the investigator. “CH Squires should be reprimanded for his failure to include (name deleted) in the initial Strong Bonds Retreat.”

But First Liberty Institute, a religious liberty law firm representing the chaplain, said on the Todd Starnes Radio Show there is more to the story.

Chaplain Squires is endorsed by the Southern Baptist convention’s North American Mission Board. The Southern Baptists forbid its chaplains from facilitating marriage retreats that include same-sex couples.

According to Southern Baptist memorandum released in 2013, “NAMB endorsed chaplains will not conduct or attend a wedding ceremony for any same sex couple, bless such a union or perform counseling in support of such a union, assist or support paid contractors or volunteers leading same-sex relational events, nor offer any kind of relationship training or retreat, on or off a military installation, that would give the appearance of accepting the homosexual lifestyle or sexual wrongdoing.”

Had Chaplain Squires participated in the marriage retreat he would have risked losing his endorsement by the Southern Baptists. Likewise, the Army requires its chaplains to adhere to their endorsers’ rules and religious tenets.

“Chaplain Squires should not have his career ruined for following the rules of both his faith and the Army,” First Liberty Institute attorney Mike Berry said on the Todd Starnes Radio Show.

Even more disturbing, the investigator found the chaplain had also committed discrimination by simply explaining his religious beliefs to the offended soldier.

“That would mean a chaplain can’t even talk about their religious beliefs without being accused of discrimination. That would strip thousands of chaplains across our military of their most basic freedoms under the First Amendment,” Berry said.

Berry said federal law protects the chaplain and prohibits the military from punishing any chaplain acting in accordance with their religious beliefs.

“Chaplains should not have to give up their First Amendment rights in order to serve,” Berry declared.

As it now stands, Chaplain Squires is being punished by the Army for following the Army’s own regulations.

Editor’s Note: Facebook is cracking down on Conservative content. To ensure you receive conservative and faith-based news items – click here for a free subscription to Todd’s newsletter.

Promoted ContentA 4-alarm fire that ripped through Trump Tower in New York City earlier this month and left a man dead was electrical and caused by power strips, officials said Monday.

Per a tweet from the FDNY, fire marshals determined that the fire was started accidentally by “sequenced power strips powering multiple components.” They added that there was no smoke alarm installed in the affected apartment.

TRUMP TOWER FIRE VICTIM ID’D AS TODD BRASSNER, ART DEALER WHO SOLD WARHOL PRINTS: REPORTS

One man was killed and four firefighters were injured in the blaze that broke out in the Manhattan high-rise on April 7.

Officials identified the deceased as 67-year-old Todd Brassner, who firefighters found “unconscious and unresponsive” on the 50th floor of the building on 5th avenue.

FIRE ERUPTS AT TRUMP TOWER IN NEW YORK CITY; 1 FATALITY ID’D, AT LEAST 4 HURT

The fire was initially called a 2-alarm fire before eventually being upgraded to a 4-alarm blaze.

Both President Trump and first lady Melania Trump were in Washington D.C. at the time of the incident.article

International Business Machines posted profit margins that fell short of Wall Street expectations on Tuesday, a sign that its reinvention was taking time.

Continue Reading Below

Shares of the technology company fell 6 percent in after-hours trade even as it reported the second quarter of revenue growth after a near six-year streak of declines.

IBM has in recent years shifted its focus to higher-margin businesses such as cloud computing, cybersecurity and data analytics, to counter a slowdown in its legacy hardware and software businesses, but the move is not going as fast as some shareholders had hoped.

While IBM's revenue and profit beat expectations, the company's adjusted gross profit margin fell to 43.7 percent from 44.5 percent a year earlier.

The company said the decline in gross margin was mostly due to "significant" one-time charges.

On an earnings call with analysts, IBM CFO James Kavanaugh said the company cut costs and took a $610 million charge in the first quarter, though he did not give details.

Advertisement

This announcement follows expectations of layoffs as IBM, under its Chief Executive Ginni Rometty, tries to offset declines from its legacy businesses.

"The margins were well below the expectations," Pivotal Research analyst Lou Miscioscia said.

The company said it had a tax benefit of $810 million, due to changes in the U.S tax law.

Wedbush Securities analyst Moshe Katri said IBM's legacy hardware business continuing to weigh on margins. "It's not necessarily about topline growth; its about profitable growth," Katri said.

In addition, IBM said it continues to expect full-year adjusted earnings per share of at least $13.80, while analysts were expecting more, with the consensus at $13.83, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

"We delivered exactly what we said 90 days ago. The $13.80 is an 'at least' and it's up 1 to 2 percent year over year," Kavanaugh told Reuters in an interview.

IBM's revenue grew 5 percent to $19.07 billion in the quarter with 65 percent growth in sales from security services. Cloud revenue grew 25 percent.

Net profit fell to $1.68 billion, or $1.81 per share, in the first quarter ended March 31, from $1.75 billion, or $1.85 per share, a year earlier.

Excluding items, the company earned $2.45 per share, beating the analyst average estimate of $2.42.

"We feel very comfortable as we enter the second quarter and the remainder of the year that we can actually deliver moving forward," Kavanaugh said.

(Reporting by Pushkala Aripaka and Munsif Vengattil in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Cynthia Osterman)Kelly Ripa's personal trainer is firing back weeks after the 47-year-old talk show host was trolled for wearing a "sexy" bikini. Instagram users criticized Ripa's physique, saying “her body is nothing to be proud of" – but Anna Kaiser thinks that's "crazy."

The celebrity trainer, who works with stars such as Shakira, Hillary Duff and Sarah Jessica Parker, has been hitting the gym with Ripa for nearly a decade now. And she wants everyone to know Ripa "works hard."

“She feels good in her skin and empowered as a woman. I would love for other women and men to feel that same way. To feel stronger in their own bodies and excited about their own program, instead of looking to use someone else as a goal," Kaiser told Yahoo Lifestyle on Monday. "That’s what she loves, but someone else may have a completely different goal with fitness and health.”

Ripa's husband, Mark Consuelos, shared a picture of his toned wife sporting a sun hat and a two-piece bathing suit during their tropical vacation in late March, drawing hundreds of comments. Many questioned why the host of ABC’s “Live with Kelly and Ryan" didn't try to cover up more.

KELLY RIPA BODY-SHAMED FOR 'SEXY' BIKINI PICTURE SNAPPED BY HUSBAND MARK CONSUELOS

"Kelly's gorgeous, but isn't there a cutoff age where age appropriateness comes into play? Just because you can rock a bikini, doesn't mean you should," one Instagram user commented.

"I thought the exact same thing," another user agreed.

"Cool @instasuelos didn't know you were into little boys, but not totally surprising," another replied.

Consuelos was quick to jump to his wife's defense.

“I wanted to take a couple of days to weigh in. Probably should’ve earlier arguably. But I wanted to be above it... I’m not. I posted this pic of the women I most admire,” Consuelos posted online. “She works extremely hard in her professional life and her commitment to exercise, healthy diet is admirable and the benefits show. Yes, she’s wearing a bikini at age 47 and will no doubt wear one for many years to come.”

KELLY RIPA'S HUSBAND MARK CONSUELOS BLASTS HATERS WHO BODY-SHAMED WIFE'S BIKINI BODY

Kaiser echoed Consuelos, adding that every body is different and individuals should always set their own fitness goals.

“Every day you have to take one step in the right direction. So maybe on the weekend you fall back a little bit, and the next week you’re going to make better decisions in nutrition and fitness,” she told PEOPLE. “But if you put too much pressure on yourself to just cut everything out — no sugar, no fat, no dairy, working out every single day — it’s just too much, and it’s not sustainable.”

The most important thing, Kaiser added, is that you feel your best.

“Everyone should focus on their goals,” she added. “Being strong and powerful in our own bodies is the goal.”

In November, Kaiser posted a slideshow of photos on Instagram to celebrate the pair's 9-year anniversary of working together. She called Ripa "incredible" and a "tour de force."

"Year after year, she puts the work in, gets stronger, pushes harder, and SHOWS UP 4-5 days a week for her AKT workout for 90min!! Now THAT is commitment," she wrote. "I am constantly inspired by her. Not only has she raised three beautiful children, but she works full-time, attends all their parent-teacher conferences, games/recitals/events, takes them to school, and manages to find time for friends, new projects, her production company, and her workouts!"The families of two children slain in the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre have filed lawsuits against InfoWars host Alex Jones for claiming the Connecticut shooting was a hoax.

Neil Heslin, the father of Jesse Lewis, and Leonard Pozner and Veronique De La Rosa, the parents of Noah Pozner, filed separate defamation lawsuits seeking more than $1 million in damages.

The suits were filed late Monday in Travis County, Texas, where Jones' media company, InfoWars, is based.

Mark Bankston, an attorney for the plaintiffs, called the accusations “ghoulish.”

“Even after these folks had to experience this trauma, for the accusations next five years they were tormented by Alex Jones with vicious lies about them,” Bankston told the Huffington Post. “And these lies were meant to convince his audience that the Sandy Hook parents are frauds and have perpetrated a sinister lie on the American people.”

Jesse and Noah were among the 20 first-grade students and six educators gunned down inside the school in Newtown on Dec. 14, 2012. The gunman, Adam Lanza, fatally shot his mother before driving to the school to carry out the massacre and then killed himself.

The lawsuits allege that Jones' insistence that the shooting was staged encouraged others to make death threats against the victims' families.

"So, if children were lost at Sandy Hook, my heart goes out to each and every one of those parents. And the people who say they're parents that I see on the news. The only problem is, I've watched a lot of soap operas. And I've seen actors before. And I know when I'm watching a movie and when I'm watching something real," Jones has been quoted as saying.

Neither Jones nor InfoWars immediately responded Tuesday to requests for comment from Fox News.

Bankston, according to The Post, also represents a Massachusetts man who is suing Jones, alleging the host falsely identified him as the gunman in the Parkland, Fla., school shooting in February of this year. There were 17 casualties in that massacre.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Often referred to as Mexico’s murder capitol, the resort town of Acapulco along the Southwest coast has made a name for itself as one of the country’s most dangerous places to visit.

On Sunday, tourists watched as a man’s body washed ashore at Caletilla Beach around 11:30 a.m. Images from Guerrero government officials show locals and visitors standing on the sand as soldiers removed the body of the fisherman who was killed during an argument over drug sales.

This incident is just one of the many horrific examples of the violent crime wave plaguing this Pacific coast town. In late March, two people were killed after shots were fired during a car robbery, causing dozens to flee a nearby Good Friday procession, Reuters reports. Last summer, authorities reported seven people murdered during an especially violent incident, including three taxi drivers who were shot inside an apartment used as an office for a taxi service, according to the Associated Press.

SOUTHWEST PASSENGERS 'CRYING,' 'SCREAMING,' PREPARING 'TO DIE' IN ATTEMPTED LANDING DURING STORM

Acapulco rose in popularity as a famous international travel destination beginning in the late 1940s through the 1960s as Hollywood stars flocked to city. It’s where John F. Kennedy and Jackie Kennedy honeymooned, and Elizabeth Taylor married Mike Todd. Frank Sinatra sang about it in his popular song, “Come Fly with Me” and Elvis promoted it in his romantic film, “Fun in Acapulco.” Tourists followed in their footsteps, wanting to visit the town that touts natural beauty, from the golden sand beaches, tropical weather and warm sea water, to the people living there, as the Tourism Promotion Council of Mexico describes it.

But due an increase in violent crime, all of Mexico is facing record homicide rates, though Acapulco ranks as one of the worst in the country. Mexico’s government reported 29,168 murders in 2017, a 27 percent increase over 2016, AP reports. According to the country’s Interior Department, who recorded the numbers, Mexico’s homicide rate was 20.5 per 100,000 inhabitants in 2017, compared to 19.4 in 2011. However, local security analyst Alejandro Hope told AP it’s probably higher because the numbers are based on murder investigations, not murder victims, as a single killing could result in multiple victims. He says the homicide rate is likely around 24 per 100,000.

In comparison, the state of Guerrero, where Acapulco is located, had a rate of 64.2 murders per 100,000 inhabitants. The western state of Colima had a rate of 93.6 and Baja California Sur, home to the twin resort towns of Los Cabos, had a rate of 69.1, according to AP.

In 2016, Acapulco had 918 killings in the city of 700,000, the most murders of any Mexican city for the fifth straight year, the Washington Post reports.

“The violence in Mexico has many causes. Drug trafficking is one of them, of course, but it is not the only one,” Hope told AP. “There are social triggers, institutional ones, historical ones, issues of land rights, it is complex.”

HUNDREDS OF SUN COUNTRY PASSENGERS STRANDED IN MEXICO AFTER AIRLINE CANCELS FLIGHT, OFFERS NO ALTERNATIVES

While locals admit the town isn’t what it used it be during Acapulco’s glory days, the city’s dangerous side doesn’t seem to be affecting tourism. “Tourists are certainly coming back, but it will never be the way it was,” 70-year-old taxi driver Miguel told an undercover reporter from The Telegraph. “You shouldn’t feel unsafe here. People believe everything they read in the newspapers, but for ‘normal’ people it’s not as crazy as that.”

Guerrero is coming off a record tourist season, according to Travel Pulse. The state reported more than 1.3 million visitors, both domestic and international, with an average hotel occupancy rate of 80.5 percent. During the summer of 2017 alone, Acapulco welcomed 690,000 tourists with hotel occupancy averaging 67 percent and reaching up to 93 percent, according to Travel Agent Central. These numbers reflect a 7 percent increase compared to the same period the year before.

Local officials have also taken steps to improve safety throughout the area, deploying 1,740 policemen, 250 police vehicles, two helicopters, and for the first time, drones to monitor the main beaches by sending live video to law enforcement, Travel Agent Central reports. Acapulco has also opened the Tourist Assistance and Protection Center, a “unique and specialized public safety initiative that's focused on visitors and on providing assistance and responses for any type of incident,” Alex Casarrubias, director of the Port Authority of Acapulco, told Travel Pulse. The center is a place where travelers can report incidents, ask questions and get help 24 hours a day, according to the New York Times.

"The local, state and federal government authorities are committed to providing the highest security measures for all visitors through the services provided by the continuous surveillance in the tourist areas of the destination," Casarrubias said. "The shared goal in Acapulco is to provide a safe environment for our visitors to be able to enjoy a pleasant stay."

The tourism board is continuously working to create promotional activities to draw more visitors to the area. “For several years, we have been actively working on the development of Guerrero’s tourism, which is growing dramatically every year,” Ernesto Rodriguez Escalona, Secretary of Tourism for the state of Guerrero, told Travel Agent Central.

But despite these added measures, the U.S. State Department highly advises against visiting Acapulco or anywhere else in Guerrero. In an updated travel advisory issued in March, the government categorized Guerrero as Level 4, meaning people are warned to not visit. This is the same level of classification used for Syria, Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan, among others.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

“Exercise increased caution in Mexico due to crime. Some areas have increased risk. Violent crime, such as homicide, kidnapping, carjacking, and robbery, is widespread,” the website reads. For Guerrero specifically, the government strongly advises people to avoid the state due to crime. “Armed groups operate independently of the government in many areas of Guerrero. Members of these groups frequently maintain roadblocks and may use violence towards travelers. U.S. government employees are prohibited from travel to the entire state of Guerrero, including Acapulco,” the travel advisory reads.

The Associated Press and Fox News’ Katherine Lam contributed to this report.The Internal Revenue Service announced Tuesday that its April 17 deadline for filing taxes was moved to the next day after many Americans rushing to submit their returns electronically encountered glitches.

Continue Reading Below

Earlier on Tuesday, a link to the IRS direct pay page was down, which could prevent individuals from paying their taxes before the deadline. The IRS announced that the April 17 deadline was moved to April 18 as a result.

The agency insisted filers should continue to proceed as usual while the issue was ironed out. The system was back online by late Tuesday.

"The IRS encountered system issues Tuesday morning. Throughout the system outage, taxpayers were still able to file their tax returns electronically through their software providers and Free File," the IRS said in a statement.

The glitch is the result of a problem between the website and software companies, Acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter said, as reported by Politico.

Advertisement

The agency was planning a “hard reboot” of its systems, a congressional official told The Washington Post.

Meanwhile, CNN noted some Twitter users were posting bizarre messages they received on the IRS site, which said the direct pay page was down because of “planned maintenance” until 6:40 p.m. ET on Thursday, Sept. 22, 2016.

Filing and paying late can result in penalties for taxpayers. A penalty is issued first for filing late: 5% of the amount of unpaid taxes each month, up to a maximum of 25%. The penalty for paying late is 0.5% of the amount owed each month up to a maximum of 25%. If both penalties are due in the same month, the failure-to-file penalty is reduced to 0.5%.

Taxpayers unable to pay because of the site’s technical glitches will not be penalized, Kautter said during a congressional oversight hearing on Tuesday, The Washington Post reported.The U.S.-British alliance – a bond forged in blood in two world wars, is the so-called “special relationship” most people fawn over. However, there might be one other special bond – forged after World War II, turning bitter enemies into the closest of allies – that is even more important today: the one between America and Japan.

Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe began two days of meetings with President Trump at the president’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida Tuesday. Just looking over the amount of issues these two world leaders will need to discuss, their “special relationship” will be tested in a historic manner.

At the start of their meeting, President Trump announced, with Abe at his side, that North and South Korean leaders – who are holding their own summit April 27 – will seek to finally reach an agreement to formally end the Korean War, which was halted with an armistice in 1953.

“We’ve also started talking to North Korea directly,” President Trump said. “We have had direct talks at very high levels, extremely high levels, with North Korea. And I really believe this allows good will, that good things are happening.”

The issue of what to do about North Korea is center stage for the Trump-Abe meeting, and is the most likely reason Japan’s prime minister crossed the Pacific to meet with President Trump in short order.

The timing of this visit is clearly critical. When President Trump recently agreed to a summit with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, Japan was surely taken by surprise. Now Abe must be worried that America could be going too far, too fast, in trying to achieve some sort of agreement with the North.

And when one factors in South Korea’s recent peace overtures to North Korea since January, there is a sense in Tokyo that Japan’s own security interests are slowly being forgotten.

Over the last several weeks, I have spoken to several Japanese government officials who have been very clear in voicing some frustration. As one official explained: “We don’t want to be left behind” when it comes North Korea.

The official continued: “It was Japan that had two (North Korean) missiles overfly our country – a threat that really has awoken the Japanese public to the dangers presented by North Korea. If one of these missiles had any sort of guidance problem or malfunctioned and crashed into our territory it would have been Japanese citizens who paid the price – with their lives. We want to make sure we are consulted, that we know America’s intent, as well as South Korea’s. We don’t demand a seat at the table – we just want to know what is going on at the table.”

White House and other U.S. government officials I have spoken to were very clear that they have excellent communication with their Japanese counterparts and have heard their concerns. Japan’s unique security situation – being so close geographically to North Korea – is always part of Washington’s strategic calculus, whatever happens with the Kim regime, officials told me.

One State Department official was very candid with me: “Japan should rest easy. We would never, ever, conclude any major agreement with North Korea of major importance without consulting our allies – and that means Japan, South Korea and others. Our allies in Asia, and the bigger Indo-Pacific region, are of the prime importance to us. We would never harm those relationships by concluding any agreements that could change the regional dynamics dramatically without knowing where they stand.”

But North Korea is not the only security issue America and Japan share, and, of over the long term, a much bigger challenge has arrived: a rising China.

Indeed, Washington and Japan, always considered Beijing the biggest joint challenge the alliance faced – until North Korea began heavy testing of missiles and a nuclear weapon last year.

Both the U.S. and Japan need to make sure they can resist China’s aggressive and bullying tendencies – whether in the East China or South China Seas. And America and Japan must make sure allied defensive capabilities are able to negate and deter Beijing’s rising military might in any domain and across the wide expanses of the Indo-Pacific region.

Then there is the complex issue of trade. President Trump has called out Japan and its trade practices. He has labeled these practices unfair because they take jobs away from Americans.

With Washington leaving the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement, there seems to be some daylight in the alliance on this critical issue. However, with President Trump possibly open to rejoining TPP – and knowing that Prime Minister Abe has been pressing the administration hard to rejoin the agreement – there is a possibility of a breakthrough on this core issue during their meetings.

It seems clear Trump and Abe have much to discuss, with a changing security and economic landscape in Asia that will test this alliance time and time again in the months and years to come.

But as someone who has traveled to Japan extensively and worked with many Japanese colleagues in the realm of security issues and publishing over the years, I can honestly say that Tokyo could be no better partner or friend to Washington.

Perhaps a Pentagon official I know well summed it up best: “We have no better ally than Japan. In peacetime they are our most valued partner and friend. And in a crisis, I know we can count on them to stand with us. There is no nation I trust more.”The media and Democratic politicians are painting President Trump and his administration as lapdogs for Russian President Vladimir Putin. In fact, nothing could be further from the truth.

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., recently lambasted President Trump’s supposedly “soft” stance on Russia, claiming: “President Trump seems more intent on undermining the rule of law in this country than standing up to Putin.”

Such fact-free assertions are nothing more than partisan political attacks. When comparing President Trump’s actions against Russia to those of President Obama, it is immediately clear that Trump has taken a more responsible approach.

President Trump is the Russia hawk, not President Obama. Calling the current president “soft” on Russia is both dishonest and unscrupulous.

Attacks by Democrats on President Trump’s Russia policy are an attempt to hide the fact that the current administration has been much tougher on Russia than that of President Obama. The reason for these attacks is to deflect from President Obama’s foreign policy failings, and to preserve the rapidly collapsing “Russian collusion” narrative.

Democrats seem to have erased the former president’s legacy on Russia from their memories, such as the time during the presidential debates when Mitt Romney called Russia “America’s number one geopolitical foe.”

President Obama’s response was both mocking and dismissive as he said: “The 1980s are now calling to ask for their foreign policy back, because the Cold War’s been over for 20 years.”

Consistent with President Obama’s naivete, U.S. policy towards Russia was largely defined by appeasement and utopian wishes.

Officials in the Obama State Department put their fingers in their ears and their hands over their eyes, steadfastly refusing to acknowledge Russia’s machinations and Putin’s ever-increasing global ambitions. Unsurprisingly, Russian militarism went unchecked as President Obama’s administration handed Putin a big red reset button.

Putin is not the evil maniacal ruler that some make him out to be. Like any savvy autocrat, he’s an opportunist who seeks to advance his agenda wherever and whenever possible. Thanks to President Obama’s hands-off mantra, Putin was given a unique opportunity to exploit America’s retreat in key spheres of influence.

Nowhere is this better illustrated than President Obama’s inaction during the Russian annexation of Crimea, seizing it from Ukraine. Likely feeling emboldened by American passivity in Syria, Putin decided to up the ante in his quest to make Russia once again a global powerhouse.

After watching as his Ukrainian ally Viktor Yanukovych was ousted as leader of that nation, Putin decided to go all in on Crimea. “Little green men” flooded across the Russian border into sovereign Ukraine – effectively controlling the region by March 2014.

The United States and its European allies – still playing by the old rulebook and not expecting territorial annexation to happen in 21st century Europe – reacted only weakly.

President Obama imposed minor sanctions, which did little more than bruise Russian defense firms and banks. What he did not do is more notable: he refused to provide lethal aid to Ukraine, despite repeated requests from the embattled government.

Ukraine wouldn’t be the end of Russia’s ongoing adventurism. Seeking to build upon its existing sphere of influence in the Middle East, Putin decided to dramatically increase Russia’s presence in the Syrian civil war.

After failing to enforce his own “red line,” Obama called upon Moscow to broker an agreement with Damascus to remove chemical weapons from the conflict. Putin was more than happy to negotiate an “agreement” that let Assad maintain his stockpiles of chemical weapons, which are still utilized, brutally and cruelly, to this day.

Obama passively watched as Putin worked with Assad to commit atrocities against the Syrian people. Munitions, arms, and soldiers steadily flowed from Moscow to the Assad regime with no scrutiny. Putin’s forces helped conduct countless airstrikes on civilian areas.

Thanks to the Obama administration’s naivete and foolish trust in Putin, Russia received a free pass for its complicity and barbarism.

In contrast to the Obama administration’s misguided and soft approach, President Trump has been tough on Russia. He reversed the previous administration’s decision to not send weapons to support the Ukrainian government.

Russia has continued to incite an armed uprising in Ukraine’s Donbass region – hoping to potentially annex that region as well. But thanks to the Trump administration, much-needed weapons, including Javelin missiles, have been sent to Ukraine to help quell the Russian-backed rebellion.

The president has taken the gloves off against Putin and his puppet, Syrian dictator Bashar Assad. Unlike Obama, Trump backed up American “tough talk” when Assad used chemical weapons against his own people in the Syrian city of Khan Shaykhun last year.

U.S. forces launched a total of 59 Tomahawk missiles at Shayrat Airbase in Syria in response to the attack, destroying approximately 20 percent of the Assad regime’s airpower in the process.

And Assad wasn’t let off for his recent use of chemical weapons in the Syrian city of Douma. In a coordinated effort with Britain and France, the United States launched strikes on three Syrian regime sites early Saturday. The Pentagon praised the attack for being “Precise, effective, and overwhelming.”

Additionally, the Trump administration offered no apologies or condolences after a deadly recent clash with Russian mercenaries.

In a major escalation, United States military forces, backed by AC-130s and Apache attack helicopters, obliterated more than 300 Kremlin guns-for-hire near the Syrian city of Dier al-Zor in the most lethal encounter between American and Russian forces since the Cold War.

President Trump hasn’t been afraid to target Putin’s Kremlin foot soldiers and political cronies as well. After it came to light that Russia had poisoned one of its ex-spies in Britain, President Trump worked in tandem with Britain and our European allies. The president kicked 60 Russian intelligence officers out of the U.S. and closed the Russian Consulate in Seattle. This was the largest purge of Russian spies in American history.

President Trump also recently imposed far-reaching sanctions on seven Russian business tycoons, including Putin’s former son-in-law and other Moscow-backed entities.

John Bolton, President Trump’s new national security adviser, solidifies the administration’s hardline stance on Russia. Moscow certainly needs no introduction to Bolton, who has been a hawkish critic of Putin and the Russian regime.

Bolton has advocated for the United States to retaliate against Russia through intensive “cyber-warfare,” and has signaled that America should go further in providing more aid to the Ukrainian government.

Throughout his presidency, President Trump has taken a more aggressive posture against Moscow than Obama. Don’t expect the administration to let up. Unlike President Obama, President Trump has learned that only bold and decisive actions, not meaningless red lines, will deter Russian aggression.

Alex Titus is a fellow at America First Policies, a nonprofit organization supporting policy initiatives that will put America first.Bipartisanship has returned – if ever so briefly – to American politics. We can thank fired FBI Director and new best-selling author James Comey, a polarizing figure who is hated by Republicans and Democrats alike – but loved by the media as a ratings bonanza.

Yet even most of the media still blame Comey for costing their beloved Hillary Clinton to lose the 2016 presidential race to Donald Trump.

Comey is working the media circuit overtime, promoting his new book, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” which hit bookstores Tuesday. It promises him a far bigger payday than he could ever earn at the FBI.

Remarkably, Comey is making news by not making news with new facts. His new book simply allows the fired director to vent and whine about the man who fired him – President Trump.

Just about everyone who has ever been fired is angry at their boss – but very few earn millions of dollars complaining about being shoved out the door, or appear on national news program on TV.

In fact, interest in Comey interviews – beginning with one he did in a one-hour special aired on ABC-TV Sunday night – is so high that competing networks are airing each other’s interviews, breathlessly giving us Comey talking morning, noon and night. You need to unplug your TV and computer and stop reading your email on your phone to avoid seeing him complain, complain and complain some more.

Comey – who clearly considers himself deserving of sainthood – whines that President Trump is “morally unfit to be president.” Hey – what do those dumb voters who put Trump in the White House know?

Comey is cashing in on his firing big time, thanks to his “multimillion-dollar book deal with Flatiron Books,” so he’s got that going for him.

Here’s the key point, courtesy of The Washington Post: “Comey does not accuse Trump of committing a crime.”

Liberal Vice also admitted: “Comey’s redemption tour is one that appears to be a cynical attempt to promote his book and his personal brand, not show the world a smoking gun.”

Why? Because there was no smoking gun. But let’s not let the facts get in the way of a ratings bonanza for TV shows promoting Comey interviews like the story of the century.

Comey’s book and his mouth are full of slams against President Trump. They are what matter. His interview with ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos – a former top aide to President Bill Clinton – was watched by nearly 10 million viewers.

The whole interview lasted five hours and the transcript alone is more than 42,000, words with more than 100 mentions of “Trump.”

The media have dwelled on the disparaging comments, with Comey saying President Trump reminded him of a mob “family boss” and fixating on the allegations Trump had been with prostitutes. CNN mentioned the most salacious allegations about Trump 77 different times.

To their credit, the media have reported on criticisms of St. James from both the left and right.



The Hill headlined: “Clinton allies seethe with rage at Comey.” And the story goes on to say: “They are particularly incensed by Comey’s acknowledgment that, when deciding how to handle the investigation into (Hillary) Clinton’s email server, he took into account polls showing she would win the White House.”

Liberal Vox even headlined: “Why James Comey isn’t the hero you think he is.”

Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz , D-Fla., criticized Comey’s announcement of the results of his investigation of the Hillary Clinton emails. “Doing what he did 11 days before the election was inappropriate and definitely violative of longstanding FBI practice,” Wasserman Schultz said, according to the Sun-Sentinel in Florida.

On the right, criticism of Comey looked remarkably similar.

First there was former New Jersey Republican Gov. Chris Christie, who said Comey would have fired him if he had done exactly what Comey did. “When I worked for Jim, if I had said to him 11 days before an election that I was going to release information that could potentially affect the election, and one of the things that influenced me was polling, he would have fired me. He would have fired me on the spot,” Christie told ABC's "This Week."

National Review bashed Comey, arguing : “James Comey Confirms Once Again That He Failed America in 2016.”

The Federalist sounded almost identical to Vox, saying: “Comey’s Handling Of Hillary Clinton Shows Us He’s No Hero.”

But the TV networks couldn’t get enough of Comey. ABC, CBS and NBC have managed two hours, 24 minutes in just five days of coverage on both morning and evening news shows. CNN and MSNBC are promoting interviews incessantly.

Again, Comey has made no news. But no media outlet seems to care. CBS even brought in former Hillary Clinton vice presidential running mate Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va., and far-left Democratic Rep. Adam Schiff of California to discuss the ABC interview.

Perennial Democrat Stephanopoulos, who mainly tossed softballs at Comey during his ABC interview, emphasized that he was clearly upset about the “clear, clear, clear double standard” of how Comey treated Clinton and Trump. He even gave Comey a chance to apologize to Clinton. “If she were sitting right here today, what would you tell her?”

Still, Comey was obviously anti-Trump enough to warrant all five hours and most were filled with things the anchor agreed with. Like how Comey’s own wife and daughters were part of the March for Women.

“January 21st, 2017, one day after President Trump is sworn in, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators take to the streets. Among them, the wife and daughters of FBI Director James Comey,” Stephanopoulos said, as video of the anti-Trump protest aired during the special on Comey.

Then viewers get another key Deep State fact from Stephanopoulos when he told Comey: “Your wife Patrice, Hillary Clinton supporter.”

That was followed by Comey saying: “Oh, yeah. And I didn’t take a poll among all the kids, but I’m pretty sure that at least my four daughters, probably all five of my kids, wanted Hillary Clinton to be the first woman president.”

But of course, that couldn’t possibly influence St. James.

Even the major media have admitted that Comey’s brand has been damaged by his anti-Trump attacks. The New York Times cautioned: “James Comey’s Attacks on Trump May Hurt a Carefully Cultivated Image.”

Politico accused Comey of “showboating,” saying: “James Comey Is Doing It Wrong.”

They’re both right. But why should Comey care? He can laugh all way to the bank. Just hours after his book was released Tuesday, Amazon said it was already its best seller, with over 200,000 copies pre-ordered.For former Californians like me, our days consist of at least two head shakes whenever news of our former home state crawls across the transom. Almost every day, there’s a report out of that beautiful state that generates pity and bemusement at the latest outlandish event.

Last week we learned a billionaire venture capitalist finally accomplished a dream by getting enough signatures to put a measure on the ballot asking voters if they want to divide California into three states.

Tim Draper, the iconoclast behind the plan, understands the state is a disaster, but only Californians would think that the solution lies in making more Californias.

After all, that’s like thinking you’ll help your crazy uncle, who keeps trying to set the house on fire, by cloning him instead of getting him to the doctor.

We all love California, and want it to be saved. Yes, to rescue our own memories but also to bring back the freedom and possibilities a state like California offers to the American people.

Draper explained to Fox News’ Tucker Carlson that the current California government is “failing our kids, it’s not safe here, a lot of homeless people, a lot of big problems, the education system is just about the worst in all 50 states … so it needs a revamp and a restart.”

He’s right, but his litany of problems was brought on by liberal policies, not because the state is too big.

“California isn't circling the drain because it’s too big to govern. The state is a basket case because ruling Democrats have an unquenchable thirst for emptying the prisons, enabling an exploding homeless population and jacking up every imaginable tax,” said Johnny Phillips, a columnist with the Orange County Register and host at KABC Radio in Southern California.

“Since the 1990s the state and its voters have drifted far to the left,” Phillips added. “I fear that splitting the state into three would just give Democrats two more states to wreck and four more U.S. Senate seats that they would use to inflict more damage on the rest of the country.”

In his interview with Tucker Carlson, Draper confirmed Phillips’ concern. When asked why the rest of the country would allow the creation of a bunch more Californias, Draper explained: “The rest of the country will want to do what’s right for California. It takes up the same landmass as 15 states on the east coast, the population is the equivalent, an average of six or seven states. It’s appropriate to have California represented by at least three states.”

There’s the confession – California should have six senators because it’s big. And that is exactly the argument the Founders knew to thwart if our union was to survive.

Equal representation matters – especially when there is a disparity in size and power. You know, just in case a state got big, went crazy, and became a volcano of horrible ideas that could ruin paradise while banishing people with opposing viewpoints.

More people might be persuaded if we could name the new states “California,” “Bride of California,” and “Califormageddon.” All in the name of transparency, of course.

Draper is clearly more of an idealist than a realist. He told Carlson: “I think these three new states are going to empower people, to realize what’s possible in government, and then all these governments will realize they can do a better job. Then they could compete with one another down the road for citizens.”

To be a venture capitalist one needs to be a visionary but also an optimist. Draper is a registered Republican, a supporter of school vouchers and was an early investor in Skype and Tesla. He, like your humble columnist, was also involved in the election of Arnold Schwarzenegger during his first run for governor of California. That, too, was a visionary leap of faith, ultimately betrayed by someone who was thinking more of his housekeeper than he was of his responsibilities to his family and constituents.

We all love California, and want it to be saved. Yes, to rescue our own memories but also to bring back the freedom and possibilities a state like California offers to the American people. The only way that’s going to happen is when her people decide they deserve better and kick the bums out of Sacramento who are ruining that great state with awful policies. But they’ll need a champion like Draper to help them do it.

Instead of trying to divide California into three states, Draper should be working to unite the state and improve the lives of its people. He can do that by working to elect officials at the state and federal level who will replace far-left Big Government policies with sensible government that respects individual freedom, reduces the huge tax burden on Californians, and -- if I may borrow a phrase -- will Make California Great Again.WASHINGTON -- In 2013, after Syrian dictator Bashar Assad crossed President Obama's red line and used chemical weapons on innocent civilians, a U.S. official told the Los Angeles Times that Obama's retaliatory strike would likely be "just muscular enough not to get mocked" but not so devastating that it would elicit a response from Iran and Russia. In the end, Obama backed away from even such a small, feckless strike.

On Friday, Trump carried one out.

Trump deserves credit for acting (now twice) when Obama wouldn't. He also deserves credit for getting U.S. allies to join us when Obama couldn't. But let's be clear: Friday night's strikes were "just muscular enough not to get mocked." As a result, they did more damage to the United States' credibility on the world stage than they did to the Assad regime.

The U.S.-led strike did not hit a single airplane, airfield or delivery system, and it left Syria with chemical weapons capabilities. Even at the sites we did hit, the Syrians had plenty of time to move equipment and chemical stockpiles. There were no reported casualties on the ground, suggesting that the regime had evacuated the targets.

The Syrians know that they won. The Washington Post reports that "on the streets of Damascus, there was jubilation as government supporters realized that a more expansive assault would not materialize." Retired Gen. Jack Keane, former vice chief of staff of the Army, said the Syrians had good reason to celebrate. "The response is very weak in my judgment," he said. "It should have been decisive, it should have been consequential," he continued.

Keane said Assad made a bet with his chemical attack and won. As Keane explained, Assad wanted to take out one of the last remaining rebel strongholds in the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta, which was holding out despite a brutal, nonstop bombing campaign by the Russians. Assad calculated that he could use chemical weapons to crush the resistance, achieve a military victory and then absorb what he expected to be a limited U.S. strike. So, he launched his chemical strike. Hours later, the rebels capitulated. And just as Assad predicted, the U.S. response was limited -- leaving his air power, his command-and-control, and his chemical weapons capability largely intact. Assad was not punished. Quite the opposite -- his attack played out just as he had hoped and predicted. Mission accomplished.

Far from being chastened, the U.S. response will embolden Assad, Russia and Iran. And it will embolden other U.S. adversaries as well.

What lesson did North Korea likely take from Trump's weak actions in Syria? That the Trump administration is easily intimidated and risk-averse. The reason we didn't take out all of Assad's chemical weapons capability is that we were intimidated by Russia. Instead of warning the Russians to evacuate, and telling them we would not be responsible for what happened to their personnel if they failed to do so, we specifically designed our strikes to avoid even the remote possibility of provoking Moscow.

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un understands this. And the lesson he takes is that if Trump won't take out Syrian airfields because we're afraid of Russia's response, then he's definitely not going to strike Kim's nuclear and ballistic missile program and risk a North Korean artillery barrage on Seoul.

This is a major setback to the Trump administration's efforts to stop North Korea from developing the capability to threaten U.S. cities with nuclear missiles. The only way the United States can persuade North Korea to peacefully give up its pursuit of these weapons is if Kim believes Trump's threat of military force is credible. After Friday's U.S. actions in Syria, our credibility has been weakened, not enhanced.

News reports indicate that Trump wanted a more robust response but faced resistance from Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, the same man who has resisted giving Trump robust military options for North Korea. If accurate, Mattis did the president a great disservice by scaling down his desired Syrian response. The president's desire is to project strength on the world stage. Under Mattis' apparent guidance, he did the opposite.

As a result, Trump is weakened going into his summit with Kim. If Trump had taken no action, it would have been worse -- but not by much. Because when you carry out strikes "just muscular enough not to get mocked," you are projecting weakness -- and weakness is provocative.After a series of recent hospitalizations, former first lady Barbara Bush will not seek further medical treatment and will instead focus on comfort care for her failing health, according to a statement released by the family spokesman.

It’s heartbreaking news. The beloved former first lady, now 92, has been the rock of her family – including her husband, former President George H.W. Bush, and son, former President George W. Bush. Mrs. Bush even campaigned for son Jeb Bush during his 2016 presidential run.

As the matriarch of a family with five children, 14 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren, I have no doubt that Mrs. Bush is surrounded by an abundance of love and support at this time. And according to the statement, her unwavering faith in God is helping her continue to be a “rock in the face of her failing health.”

Mrs. Bush has been treated for decades for a thyroid condition called Graves’ disease, which is an immune system disorder where the organ overproduces hormones. But according to the family, more recent hospitalizations have been for treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and congestive heart failure.

In the wake of this news, many people may be wondering what exactly comfort care is. It’s often thought of in cases of people suffering long battles with cancer and other degenerative diseases, so Mrs. Bush’s brave decision leaves us wondering what comfort care means for the remainder of her life.

I spoke with my friend and colleague, Dr. Lisa Tank, head of geriatric medicine at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey.

Q: What is comfort care?

A: Comfort care is truly a form of care that is very focused on symptom management. It is synonymous with palliative care and when there is a defined time span of less than six months of longevity then it does fall into hospice care. They can be used interchangeably and can be used in different settings: hospital, home and nursing home care.

Being in a hospital – constantly being woken up to get vitals checked, getting blood draws, going for scans in a strange environment – doesn’t provide a patient with a lot of comfort. So if your illness has accelerated and you’re ending up in the hospital, we would take a step back and start to talk about doing things at home for you where you are in your own environment, surrounded by ones you love on your own schedule.

Kudos to Mrs. Bush for saying “this is my goal.” Her goal is to stay at home and enjoy her time with her family. It is very important as far as patient and physician relationships go that the goals are talked about. Goals are very fluid and they reset depending on how the patient is feeling.

What happens in certain chronic diseases like COPD and congestive heart failure is that these are longstanding, and they can decompensate quite quickly, which is when you end up in the emergency room or hospital and the illness is seriously impacting your quality of life.

So with these kinds of diseases, we start to have these conversations early on, so that when we come to a point where a patient’s quality of life is compromised, we have a plan in place.

It’s a very holistic approach. Really a big majority of what we’re doing is educating the caregiver at home on what to look for and what steps to take to make sure the patient is comfortable. That could be playing a patient’s favorite music, having pictures of loved ones around or talking about all the things they have done.

Comfort care interventions are very minimal and not invasive, but they can greatly contribute to a person’s ability to do the things they like to do in spite of their illness.

Q: When would someone typically seek out this kind of care?

A: I think this depends on the disease. People who suffer from chronic conditions are not always thinking of this, we have these conversations with patients and their caregivers when we’re discussing what the trajectory of illness is going to look like.

So patients can seek this care at any point when they feel like their ability to function has decreased – that usually means dressing, bathing, feeding – performing basic daily functions. If we start noticing that our patients are requiring more and more help, it usually sends us a red flag.

A big factor in all this is sleep because when you can’t sleep at night, it makes it really hard to be comfortable.

Q: What kinds of conditions is comfort care most often used for?

A: It’s mainly used for chronic diseases like Mrs. Bush has, or for cancer patients, those with dementia, Parkinson’s, sometimes there is no disease and you are just getting older which is called frailty or failure to thrive. Basically, instead of bringing you to the care we bring the care to you.

Q: What might comfort care look like for Barbara Bush considering her history of COPD and congestive heart failure?

A: With her COPD and congestive heart failure it will most likely be bringing nursing services to the house; some sort of support services to help her with her daily living – basic hygiene, dressing, feeding.

Caregivers may work on modifying her environment, making sure her head is elevated so she can breathe better. There may be treatments for opening her lungs – usually with COPD we use a very low flow of oxygen to help with shortness of breath.

Some patients with COPD struggle with temperature if it’s hot and humid it might make it harder for them to breathe so we would try to keep the temperature cool. Caregivers will also work to alter a congestive heart failure patient’s diet to eliminate salty foods that can cause a buildup of fluid, because it makes breathing tougher. So there are always behavioral things to work on then there’s the pharmaceutical side of it if it’s necessary.

Q: What advice would you give to a family looking into comfort care for a loved one?

A: It’s important to remember that making a decision to seek comfort care does not mean we are withdrawing medical care. This is still a very active medical management plan and more intervention does not necessarily mean you are providing better care. The right intervention at the right time is the best care.

Many times, comfort care tends to get overlooked because a lot of the providers are trained to believe that if they keep doing more, they are providing care to their patients. But sometimes doing less is actually preserving a patient’s quality of life and that’s what we’re here to do.

I think the rest of country joins me in wishing Mrs. Bush our best. Our thoughts and prayers for peace and comfort are with her and the entire Bush family.When President Bill Clinton signed the welfare reform act in 1996, which he negotiated with then-Speaker Newt Gingrich, the left claimed people would starve. They didn’t. According to the nonpartisan Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, between 1996 and 2000, the employment rate for single mothers increased from 63 percent to 76 percent. In addition, the overall poverty rate has declined over the last half-century. Many able-bodied people who once relied on a government check found jobs and started earning a paycheck.

Good news, but the sideshow that has attached itself to so much of the Trump administration has distracted many from things that actually affect people’s lives.

President Trump last week signed an executive order, the purpose of which is, according to a White House press release, to reduce poverty in America “by promoting opportunity and economic mobility.”

Some of that is already happening with unemployment numbers the lowest they’ve been in 17 years.

The press release says that in 2017, “the Federal Government spent more than $700 billion on low-income assistance.” It notes that since modern welfare began during the administration of Franklin Roosevelt, the system has become a large bureaucracy with little incentive for people to look for work.

Conservatives like to say they measure success not by how many people receive government assistance, but by how many don’t. It is more than a sound bite. Helping people become independent of government is real compassion.

Conservatives like to say they measure success not by how many people receive government assistance, but by how many don’t. It is more than a sound bite. Helping people become independent of government is real compassion.

The executive order addresses what for many has become an addiction to government: “While bipartisan welfare reform enacted in 1996 was a step toward eliminating the economic stagnation and social harm that can result from long-term Government dependence, the welfare system still traps many recipients, especially children, in poverty and is in need of further reform and modernization in order to increase self-sufficiency, well-being, and economic mobility.”

The order also stresses the need for better social networking to become more involved in helping able-bodied people to acquire the skills, education, child care and especially the motivation to work. I would add that churches and religious institutions that benefit from tax breaks should be encouraged to do more to help poor people find employment.

The president cites another key to reducing the welfare rolls: “Address the challenges of populations that may particularly struggle to find and maintain employment (including single parents, formerly incarcerated individuals, the homeless, substance abusers, individuals with disabilities and disconnected youth)…”

Education choice should be another component of welfare reform. A good education for a child currently living in poverty is a ticket out of the system and into a better life.

I have written before about the nation of Singapore, where unemployment hovers around 2 percent. That’s because the country has no welfare programs. If one is capable of working and doesn’t work, he gets no check from the government. The truly needy are cared for. Knowing that government is a last resort and not a first resource and that if you don’t work, you won’t have money to buy food, is a powerful incentive to find a job.

What the administration should do to help sell its welfare reform initiative is locate people who benefitted from the 1996 legislation and who are working and supporting their families and feature them at public events. Optimism almost always overcomes pessimism and the story of people overcoming odds is America’s story.Through his actions during his relatively brief tenure as FBI Director and now in penning and promoting a salacious “tell all” book, it is now quite evident that James Comey’s higher loyalty is to James Comey, and James Comey alone. It is not, by any stretch of the imagination, to the FBI, where I served for 24 years, or to the selfless men and women who work there – all of whom he has tossed, once again, into the middle of a political firestorm.

The ancient Greeks had a word for the excessive vanity that would cause someone to place his interests before those of his country and those of the dedicated public servants he was called to lead – it’s called hubris.

There is no other plausible explanation for his series of ill-advised actions, beginning with the then-director’s now-infamous press conference in July 2016, when he acted contrary to 28 US Code Section 547, Section 9 of the United States Attorneys Manual and over 100 years of established practice between the FBI and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). He did this in declaring, without ever consulting with a DOJ prosecutor, that Hillary Clinton was un-prosecutable in the wake of a kid gloves investigation.

His actions are unworthy of the storied law enforcement agency I served for close to a quarter of a century, and they shocked many of us who worked with and around him during his years serving in the Department of Justice.

The statutes cited above clearly state that the U.S. Justice Department and the United States Attorneys have plenary authority to make prosecution decisions. In contravention of this wisely drawn system of checks and balances, then-FBI Director Comey held his unprecedented press conference and in doing so, he needlessly injected the FBI into one of the most volatile political controversies of our time.

The public needs to understand that this is really not how the FBI operates within today’s criminal justice system. Jim Comey and his discredited inner circle in no way represent the FBI and its dedicated men and women.

Comey's rationale that he took these actions because Attorney General Loretta Lynch was "conflicted" doesn't hold water with anyone possessing even a rudimentary knowledge of the federal criminal justice system.

The American system was designed by our founding fathers to interject an objective party with legal training between those who are investigating and those who decide whether to invoke the legal process to deprive someone of his or her life, liberty or property.

This brilliant system, which Comey trashed, was designed to keep the FBI and other law enforcement agencies out of politics. Now his book renews the controversy to the detriment of nearly everyone but Jim Comey, who is clearly out to repair his tarnished reputation and mete out some payback for his dismissal by President Trump.

Sunday’s interview on ABC – and every action he has taken since usurping the role of the Justice Department – has only thrust the FBI deeper into the political crucible. It has also apparently reinforced Comey’s misplaced belief that he, and he alone, is better equipped than anyone else in the criminal justice system to make important decisions.

As former director of the FBI, Comey is very familiar with the recusal process and knows full well that if Attorney General Lynch was “conflicted,” the legally appropriate process was for her to delegate decision-making authority to another person inside the Justice Department. He never gave her a chance. Instead of allowing her to fulfill her responsibilities and do the right thing, Comey effectively took her off the hook and placed the FBI on it.

He also forever tainted any future prosecution of Hillary Clinton because he, the head of the lead investigative agency, had basically absolved the former Secretary of State of any wrongdoing.

Further evidence of Comey's ego overriding sound judgment is his willingness to leak and tolerate leaks among his inner circle. Leaking information concerning sensitive investigations is a violation of federal law. As the DOJ Inspector General stated in the Andrew McCabe investigation, such leaks serve no public interest whatsoever – aside, of course, from serving the private agendas of McCabe and Comey.

Comey's book removes any doubt that personal animus towards Donald Trump and acute sensitivity to the political environment permeated his inner circle and drove key actions and decisions. Regardless of how one feels about Trump’s presidency, Comey’s petty references to the president’s physical appearance and other aspects of his personality are far more revealing about Comey than anyone else.

He describes Donald Trump as acting like a mob boss and not “tethered to the truth.” He pronounces the president a liar and “morally unfit to be president.”

If he truly believed this was so, then Jim Comey had a golden opportunity on several occasions to act on conviction and either forcefully stand up to the president or resign on principle. The truth is that Jim Comey relished the role of FBI Director and wanted to keep his job, so he remained silent until he miraculously found the courage to speak up while out promoting his book.

I am also particularly concerned that Comey’s grandstanding could be devastating to ongoing prosecutions and investigations by Special Counsel Robert Mueller. Our country deserves to know the truth about how extensively the Russians interfered in our election and who may have assisted them. And Comey, as an attorney and officer of the court, knows that as a potential key witness it is highly inappropriate and potentially prejudicial to the prosecution for him to comment on matters in which he played such a significant role – and may have to testify about.

It is ironically Comey and his band – including McCabe, Lisa Page and Peter Skrozk (he of the infamous “insurance policy” again Trump being elected) – who will most likely be called as the first witnesses for the defense in any prosecution that the Special Counsel might bring forward.

When the director of the FBI, his second in command, the national security lawyer assigned to keep the case within legal boundaries and the lead case agent all express a strong bias or even hatred toward the target(s) of the investigation, they become key defense witnesses. Juries will take note of this bias and question everything that stems from it, meaning Comey has carelessly and needlessly complicated Special Counsel Mueller’s mission.

Comey’s book will sell because these kinds of tabloid stories always do. There may have been a time and place for him to tell his story, but now is not that time. His “tell all” is beneath the office of the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, who does indeed owe a “higher loyalty” – to the criminal justice system and the mission of the FBI.

Jim Comey’s attempt at burnishing his legacy has thrust the FBI back into the political arena even as current Director Chris Wray patiently and doggedly tries – in the models of former directors Robert Mueller, Louie Freeh and William Webster – to extricate the agency from this political environment and return to established procedures and processes free of even a hint of bias or grandstanding.

The public needs to understand that this is really not how the FBI operates within today’s criminal justice system. Jim Comey and his discredited inner circle in no way represent the FBI and its dedicated men and women.

FBI Agents may have political and personal opinions but they check them at the door as they leave their homes to conduct the public’s business. FBI employees serve in a complex, global environment, many in war zones and international hotspots. They provide the most skilled and professional law enforcement services in the world. They do not deserve to have their professionalism and objectivity called into question because of the actions of Jim Comey, whose time as FBI director was an aberration.

It is very painful for this FBI veteran to say that the Comey manuscript, with its petty and gratuitous observations, self-aggrandizement and moralizing, sadly displays an ego that is loyal first and foremost to its author.Massive swarms of over 1,000 basking sharks spotted off the northeastern U.S. are puzzling scientists.

National Geographic reports that the shark swarms were noticed during aerial surveys to locate endangered North Atlantic Right Whales. Typically solitary creatures, the throngs of basking sharks have surprised experts.

CALIFORNIA PHOTOGRAPHER CAPTURES POD OF KILLER WHALES ON CAMERA: ‘I WAS IN UTTER AMAZEMENT’

A research study published in the Journal of Fish Biology harnessed aerial survey data between 1980 and 2013, focusing on groups of at least 30 sharks. “These aggregations occurred in summer and autumn months and included aggregation sizes of up to 1,398 individuals, the largest aggregation ever reported for this species,” the researchers explained.

National Geographic reports that, while 10 large groups of sharks were spotted during the survey period, the record-breaking gathering of almost 1,400 sharks was particularly interesting. Spotted in November 2013 off Southern New England, the group included several young sharks. This suggests that the group was feeding on zooplankton rather than mating, according to Leah Crowe, a field biologist at NOAA’s Northeast Fisheries Science Service, and the study’s lead author.

FISHERMEN REEL IN 'RARE' 10-FOOT SHARK OFF FLORIDA COAST

Although fearsome looking, the basking sharks, which can grow up to 32 feet long, are not a threat to humans.

The study suggests that the sharks may have been “drafting” off each other to save energy while feeding. The sharks may have gathered to cut down on the drag caused by their open mouths, it said.Starbucks is planning to follow up on its CEO’s promise to implement “unconscious bias” training by closing more than 8,000 company-owned stores across the U.S. on May 29 to conduct “racial bias training,” per a Starbucks news release.

“I’ve spent the last few days in Philadelphia with my leadership team listening to the community, learning what we did wrong and the steps we need to take to fix it,” said Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson in the statement.

“While this is not limited to Starbucks, we’re committed to being a part of the solution. Closing our stores for racial bias training is just one step in a journey that requires dedication from every level of our company and partnerships in our local communities.”

OFFICERS IN STARBUCKS INCIDENT 'DID ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG' SAYS PHILLY POLICE CHIEF

Company-owned retail stores, as well as corporate offices, will close for the afternoon of Tuesday, May 29 for employees to undergo training designed to “address implicit bias, promote conscious inclusion,” and deal with discrimination issues, the news release confirms.

The training measures will reportedly be designed by Bryan Stevenson of the Equal Justice Initiative, Sherrilyn Ifill of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, Heather McGhee of Demos and Jonathan Greenblatt of the Anti-Defamation League, as well as former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. Moving forward, this curriculum will become part of routine training for all new Starbucks hires, the company says.

Starbucks-licensed outlets, such as those found in colleges or supermarkets, or inside other retail outlets, are not included among the 8,000-plus company-owned stores confirmed to be closing in Starbucks’ announcement, and not required to close. A spokesperson for Fox News has confirmed that the curriculum will be available to those outlets, and licensed stores will be encouraged to participate in the training.

MCDONALD’S MANAGER APOLOGIZES FOR SLAPPING CUSTOMER, SAYS WOMAN THREW COFFEE AT HER FIRST

"We will learn from our mistakes and reaffirm our commitment to creating a safe and welcoming environment for every customer," added Starbucks executive chairman Howard Schultz in the company's announcement.

News of Starbucks' mass training efforts comes in response to an April 12 incident during which two African-American men were arrested while waiting for a friend inside a Philadelphia Starbucks on Spruce Street near South 18th Street at approximately 4:30 p.m. Employees had reportedly claimed the men were tresspassing, and police later led both away in handcuffs.

Footage of the arrests has since gone viral on Twitter, amassing over 10 million views and garnering strong reactions from both social media and Starbucks executives including Johnson, who called the incident "reprehensible" and said the arrests never should have happened, the Associated Press reports.

While the two arrested men have yet to be identified by name, the Associated Press confirmed that Johnson met in person with the pair on April 16 to apologize. Meanwhile, about two dozen protestors charged the coffee shop that same day, chanting slogans like, "A whole lot of racism, a whole lot of crap, Starbucks coffee is anti-black."

"We don't want this Starbucks to make any money today. That's our goal," Abdul-Aliy Muhammad, one of the protest's organizers and co-founder of the Black and Brown Workers Collective, told AP. The hashtag #BoycottStarbucks also reportedly began gaining traction on Twitter.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

A lawyer for the men did not immediately return the AP’s requests for comment.

As of press time, Starbucks had yet to share the news of the national store closing from their official Twitter, Instagram or Facebook accounts.Alyssa Milano brushed off her former co-star Rose McGowan’s comments calling her a liar and looking for good press for her involvement in the Time’s Up and #MeToo movement.

Milano, 45, was slammed by her former “Charmed” co-star earlier this year. McGowan, 44, told “Nightline” anchor Juju Chang that Milano was throwing her support behind the movement for good press.

“I don’t like her,” McGowan said of Milano. “Cause I think she’s a lie.”

“Do you think I don’t know these people? Do the math,” she continued, referring to David Bugliari, Milano’s husband who is a Hollywood talent agent. “Who’s behind Time’s Up? CAA [Creative Artists Agency]. Where do they meet? CAA? Who needs good PR? CAA. Who are part of the pimp problem? CAA.”

BRODY JENNER CALLS TRISTAN THOMPSON, KHLOE KARDASHIAN CHEATING SCANDAL A ‘MESS’

When asked about McGowan’s comments, Milano told Us Weekly her former co-star was “hurting so badly” at the time when she made those comments.

“I see that as a beautiful soul that was hurting so badly that she was talking from that hurt. And I understand,” she said.

“I try not to let it affect me because I believe so much in what I fight for that I feel like the hate, and maybe this is just me spinning it in my own mind, the hate means that I’m actually doing something right,” she continued.

“So for me, I try not to pay too much attention to it,” she continued. “It gets hard some days, obviously,” the “Who’s the Boss?” star concluded.

Milano is an outspoken supporter of the Time’s Up and #MeToo movements following exposés about Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein. McGowan alleged she was sexually assaulted by Weinstein in 1997.

STEVE HARVEY SPILLS ALL THE DETAILS ABOUT THE ‘FAMILY FEUD’ KARDASHIAN EPISODE

McGowan has been critical of Milano before. In December, the “Citizen Rose” star blasted Milano on Twitter for being friends with Georgina Chapman, Weinstein’s estranged wife. Milano and Champman judged “Project Runway: All Stars” together.

“You make me want to vomit. You actually gave me a body flashback. Well done, fake one,” McGowan tweeted after Milano spoke about how Chapman was doing following exposés.

“Georgina is doing very well,” Milano said. “She’s an amazing mother. She’s an amazing woman. I think her priority right now is focusing on how to raise those two children to the best of her capacity, given the situation.”“Roseanne” brought back not one but two classic characters from the series in this week’s episode. With Harris’ birthday around the corner, Darlene gets a visit from her ex while Roseanne and Jackie face their greatest fear, the return of their mother.

The episode opens with Roseanne and Darlene shopping at the grocery store. As Roseanne uses DJ’s daughter, Mary, to steal bacon from the self-checkout, a clerk comes over to inform Darlene that Harris smashed all the cakes. She orders Harris to the car and checks her phone to see a text from her estranged husband, David (plated by returnign star Johnny Galecki).

She puts together that Harris vandalized the merchandise in a tantrum over David’s return. This is the first real mention of David since the revival, and for good reason. It’s revealed that he was an unattentive father, only seeing his children three times since leaving them in Chicago. Apparently, he’s been spending his time building houses in third-world countries.

Although Darlene is skeptical and anxious about his return, Roseanne tells her that she should give him another shot and that he’s a good man. That’s how Darlene figures out that her mother is still in touch with David. She yells at her, but later apologizes when they’re home, noting that she’s just confused about him and is completely lost when it comes to how he should interact with their kids.

As Roseanne is talking about giving David another shot as a dad, Dan walks in and voices his disapproval. He feels that there's no excuse for David leaving his family.

“Oh, he can walk in here, he just won’t be able to walk out,” he says.

As Darlene ponders what to do with David, there’s a knock at the door and Jackie and Roseanne open it to see their mother, Beverly. It turns out, she was kicked out of her nursing home for having sex with multiple partners in various parts of the facility. As fans will remember, Beverly came out as a lesbian during the original run of the series, but it seems that information, like Dan’s death, was simply part of Roseanne’s scrapped book that now collects dust in the garage.

Beverly later reveals that she can’t return to her nursing home because she gave a few of the men there gonorrhea. She says that she’ll simply have to move in with Roseanne and Jackie, much to their chagrin.

Meanwhile, Darlene is in her bedroom wrapping a gift for Harris when David comes in through the window. Terrified of Dan, he says that his old entrance to the home was preferable to the front door. They start to talk and he’s got news.

Darlene assumes that he’s going to ask to get back together yet again, but he instead reveals that he signed a lease and is moving back to Lanford. He also confesses that he met a woman named Blue. He wants to move in with her, but needs to finally give Darlene a divorce in order to do so. Realizing this might finally be the end of her relationship with the father of her children, Darlene kisses David and the two have sex.

“What will I tell Blue?” he asks.

“Tell her she’s got a stupid name,” Darlene quips back.

The next day, they argue while he’s leaving prompting Darlene to apologize. She’s excited to tell her family that they’re getting back together and doesn’t want the day marred by a silly argument. Still, she knows it's a bad sign.

When she finally tells Roseanne and Becky the news, neither is on board. Darlene asks why her mom is upset, given that she was pushing for David to get a second chance. Roseanne says that she only thought David needed a second chance as a father, not as a husband. However, it’s Becky of all people that finally gets through to Darlene. During last week’s episode, Darlene helped her sister get over the death of her husband Mark, she echoed her advice about moving on back to her.

“David didn’t die.”

“No, but your marriage did.”

Later that night, when David arrives to Harris’ birthday party, Darlene meets him at the door to tell him that they’re not getting back together.

“The truth is, we’re delusional if we think we can make each other happy,” she says through tears. “We’re going to fight, you’re going to run and we’re going to break the kids’ hearts.”

When Dan comes out to ask if everything is OK, he makes it clear that David isn’t welcome at the party, which he agrees to. Just like that, he’s given a second chance to be the kids dad, but his days as Darlene’s husband are done.With diminished “Good Morning America” co-anchor Lara Spencer frantically trying to make it appear that her absence from the show is by choice — Page Six has learned that “relieved” show staffers are cheering her slashed schedule.

Page Six reported on Monday, ABC’s morning show is focusing on its team of core anchors — George Stephanopoulos, Michael Strahan and Robin Roberts— by overhauling their other anchors’ schedules.

The network has promoted Amy Robach to “20/20,” while cutting back Spencer’s airtime from five days a week to three.

Sources say that Spencer’s team leaked a story to People magazine on Sunday that intended to prove Spencer had decided to “cut back” her “GMA” role “to focus on her lifestyle brand,” producing TV shows about bargain hunting.

But industry sources say that, in fact, Spencer — who has been at the show since 1999 — is being quietly sidelined from the insurgent “GMA,” which is locked in a battle with the NBC rival “Today” show for the top morning spot.

“Lara’s good at her job,” said an insider, “but it’s not like the [ratings] are affected when she’s not on [the show].”

Meanwhile, we’re told that the ABC rank and file are thrilled by news that they’re going to have to spend less time around her.

“Staff are relieved that Lara’s schedule is being cut back,” said an industry insider. “She treats staff badly, she yells at people and she makes a lot of extra work for people.”

A GMA rep said, “This is ridiculous. She is the ultimate team player. Lara decided to cut back her hours on GMA to focus on her production company.”

Click here for more on this story from The New York Post's Page SixThe cut-throat nature of crab fishing reared its ugly head in the second episode of “The Deadliest Catch,” Season 14. With captains still trying to figure out where the odd weather has migrated the crabs, loyalties were tested.

Last week’s episode ended with Captain Keith confiding his sweet spot to Captain Jake Anderson. While Keith spot is good, it’s nothing compared to Anderson’s former mentor, and current rival, Captain Sig Hansen. The Northwestern was raking in pots with an average of 85 crabs, but Hansen got worried that the rest of the fleet was closing in. In one of the boldest choices on the Bering Sea to date, Hansen pulled his pots and moved further west, where he believed the crab to be headed.

Along the way, he passed by Anderson’s vessel, but the captain didn’t respond on the radio. The novice captain was too busy following marching orders from Captain Keith, who was a no-show at their rendezvous point. With his pots out of the water for roughly twelve hours, Anderson began to think that Keith and Hansen pulled a fast one on him. However, when Keith arrived and passed him coordinates in code, things started to take shape.

Keith was initially confident that he could use Anderson’s inexperience to his advantage and get him to fish with him to scare off the rest of the fleet. However, when his new partner didn’t even recognize coded coordinates, Keith had doubts.

“We’re talking crab fishing one… Not even 101,” he jokes.

Fortunately, once things stop getting lost in translation, the two vessels were able to go about their business. Meanwhile, upon seeing Anderson’s location, Hansen put it together that he’s getting help from Keith. He called his fellow veteran captain on the radio, but Keith denies helping his former protege. It seems that there’s no room for complete honesty in the competitive early fishing days.

With Anderson and Keith in the way of his new location, Hansen started to worry that his choice to pack up and move elsewhere may have been in error. This feeling is compounded when he pulled his pots from the new spot to find that his take had gone from collecting an average of 85 crabs per pot, to pulling zero. His new spot has nothing but baby crabs that they’re required by law to throw back.

Meanwhile, Anderson casted his pots for 16 hours in Keith’s super-secret hotspot only to run into the same problem as Hansen. He’s got nothing but babies. Reasonably upset, he calls Keith looking for answers. He’s told that 16 hours isn’t enough to soak, and he needed to wait at least 36 hours. He obliges, but he can’t shake that nasty feeling that he’s being tricked. Fortunately, the play works and he finds himself finally raking in crab by the numbers he needs, all thanks to Keith.

While that’s going on, Hansen was dealing with an increasingly unruly crew, who demand answers for his decision to leave a lucrative fishing spot just because he didn’t want to fish with other captains. If he doesn’t find something to do soon, the veteran captain will run the risk of getting outplayed by his rival for the year, Anderson.Nikki Bella and John Cena shocked fans when they announced they ended their engagement just weeks before their scheduled May 5 wedding.

The WWE stars called their split a "difficult" decision in a joint statement on Sunday.

"While this decision was a difficult one, we continue to have a great deal of love and respect for one another," the couple said via Instagram. "We ask that you respect our privacy during this time in our lives."

The couple began dating in 2012 and Cena, 40, proposed to his longtime love at WrestleMania 33 last year. Fans were stunned by the news of the breakup as the former lovebirds had recently gushed over their upcoming nuptials.

At a March 23 press conference for WrestleMania 34, Cena recalled proposing to Bella.

A post shared by Nikki Bella (@thenikkibella) on Mar 14, 2018 at 12:39pm PDT

"When a man finds the woman of his dreams and wants to say that he loves her and for the world to know," Cena said before calling up his then-fiancee. "Nicole, want to come up here for a second please?"

Cena hugged Bella and through tears told the crowd that WrestleMania -- and seemingly Bella -- means "everything to me."

Bella told Fox News in August that Cena calls her his "bride."

"The only thing that's changed [since the proposal] is he'll text me now saying like, 'I'll miss my bride.' So now he's using the term bride and fiancee which I love," she said at the time.

So what went wrong?

Cena, who was married to Elizabeth Huberdeau from 2009 to 2012, had previously spoken about his desire to not marry again. Despite getting down on one knee in front of the world to ask Bella to marry him, insiders told People he got cold feet as the wedding date approached.

Soon to be.... 💍 A post shared by Nikki Bella (@thenikkibella) on Jan 27, 2018 at 8:23am PST

"He talked a really good game about having changed, about having his priorities straight, about knowing what’s important, and that it was her. But as the day got closer, it was like he just went back to who he’s always been — which is someone who puts himself first, always," the source told the magazine. "He’s an incredibly dedicated, driven, ambitious guy. And for the longest time he said he didn’t think he had room in his life for a spouse or kids. It seems like in the end that was still the truth."

The source added that Bella is "heartbroken."

"He never should’ve proposed, let alone in front of millions of people. Now she’s heartbroken."

Cena did hint at trouble in an interview with Us Weekly last week.

A post shared by Nikki Bella (@thenikkibella) on Apr 7, 2018 at 9:32am PDT

"Relationships are hard. Don’t ever think that love is easy. Love is beautiful, but we’ve had to come to the realization after being together for five years that love is not easy," he said.

Multiple reports indicated that the duo's busy schedules led to their break up.

Fox News' Steve Credo contributed to this report.An Italian manufacturing firm is hoping to help airlines cram even more people onto their planes with its new idea for “increased upright passenger position” seating.

Oh good!

The Skyrider 2.0 — a design proposed by Aviointeriors and unveiled at the Aircraft Interiors Expo 2018 in Hamburg — is billed by the company as an “innovative seat” which would allow for an “ultra-high density” of passengers in the cabin area, per press materials.

AIR CHINA FLIGHT REROUTED AFTER PASSENGER TAKES FLIGHT ATTENDANT HOSTAGE WITH A PEN

Each Skyrider 2.0 seat offers a back support and a saddle-style cushion for passengers to rest upon, along with armrests and a seat-back tray table. The Skyrider does not, however, allow for much room between rows, and in turn, no room for stowing baggage under the seats.

The “pitch” of the Skyrider seats — the distance between the back of one and the back of the one in front of it — is just 23 inches, reports CNET. The pitch on most commercial economy flights is currently between 28 to 31 inches.

Despite this, Aviointeriors claims the seats will provide “adequate comfort” for flyers on shorter flights. The company is also eager to tout that its new Skyrider 2.0 model will generate more revenue for airlines.

“Thanks to this seat, we are able to increase the number of passengers by 20 percent with a consequent increase in profits for airline companies,” Aviointeriors writes.

SEE IT: WOMAN DOING YOGA ON FLIGHT SPARKS DEBATE: 'NOBODY NEEDS TO SEE' THAT

Aviointeriors itself proposed a similar idea for its original Skyrider seats in 2010, which varied slightly from the current model. No airline has since purchased that design, Travel + Leisure reports.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

It’s unclear if US carriers will even be able to purchase the designs for its Boeing or Airbus aircraft either, after an appeals court ruled in July 2017 that the FAA must being a review of its seat sizes, with one judge calling it “the Case of the Incredible Shrinking Airline Seat.”NASCAR is getting a little more muscle in 2019.

Ford has revealed plans to enter a Mustang-branded car in the Sprint Cup series next year, where it will replace the Fusion that currently competes against the new Chevrolet Camaro ZL1 that debuted for the 2018 season.

The announcement was made on the 54th anniversary of the original Mustang’s introduction on April 17, 1964.

Aside from a rendering of the front of the car (which we’ve brightened up to show more of its design), Ford isn’t offering much information on the new spec racer. That includes whether or not it will wear a specific model designation, like GT or Shelby GT500.

MORE NASCAR NEWS

Mustang and Camaro-bodied cars have been competing against each other in NASCAR’s second-tier series – now called Xfinity – since 2013, but this will be the first time that the two pony cars have ever faced off in Cup.

Toyota has not indicated any plans to change its Camry sedan-based entry, which was redesigned last season.

Ford will fully unveil the new Mustang after testing is completed and the design has been approved by NASCAR later this year.

IF YOU AREN'T ALREADY FOLLOWING FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK, CLICK HERE TO MAKE THAT HAPPENParents of young children know that flying with little ones can be tricky, making one stranger’s gesture all the more appreciated.

Last week, Jessica Rudeen of Arkansas was on an American Airlines flight from Kansas City to Wilmington, N.C., to visit her mother with her two young children. Soon after boarding, her 4-month-old son Alexander began screaming and her 3-year-old daughter Caroline, who had initially been excited to fly, but had now “lost her nerve” and began to scream and kick.

SOUTHWEST PASSENGERS 'CRYING,' 'SCREAMING,' PREPARING 'TO DIE' IN ATTEMPTED LANDING DURING STORM

“I want to get off the plane! I don’t want to go!” yelled Caroline, according to one of Rudeen's Facebook posts. “I honestly thought we’d get kicked off the plane," added the mom. "So with two kids losing their minds, I was desperately trying to calm the situation.”

Luckily, the family of three was seated next to a man who understood all too well what it was like to be in Jessica’s shoes. Todd Walker of Lenexa, Kan., recalled a scene, many years prior, when his own wife benefitted from the help of a stranger on a plane in quelling the anxieties of their sons, now ages 18 and 20.

"I saw was a mom looking around the corner at me with big eyes, and two kids in tow that were both having a bad day,” Walker told Fox 4 KC.

"Flying is stressful. I had little kids once. I think most people on that plane have had little kids themselves, and we have all had that fear of our kids not doing well on the flight,” he later mused to Motherly.

“So I just wanted her [Jessica] to know that hey, it's OK, we're gonna do this together and be fine."

In the Facebook post that has since been liked over 12,000 times and shared nearly 5,000, Rudeen said that Walker held Alexander as she got Caroline settled in her seat, and spent the flight entertaining Caroline, coloring, watching a movie, and showing her the sights outside of their window.

“By the end of the flight, he was Caroline’s best friend,” Rudeen said.

WOMAN FINED FOR ACCIDENTALLY FALLING ONTO BAGGAGE CAROUSEL, RIDING INTO LUGGAGE ROOM

As if the fortunate encounter couldn’t get any more sweet, Walker had the same connection from Charlotte to Wilmington, and helped the family deplane and find the next gate. He even changed his seat to sit next to the Rudeen’s on the way to North Carolina.

“I am blown away by God’s hand in this because we could have been placed next to anyone, but we were seated next to one of the nicest men I have ever met in my life,” Rudeen said of Walker’s generosity.

"For what it's worth, it was the most fun/rewarding flights I have been on in a long time and I never thought I would see or hear from them again after I walked out of the airport in Wilmington," Walker told Fox News of the experiene.

The two families plan to see each other again soon, with a meet-up planned for May.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSGrowing up with a Hollywood star-turned-royal for a mother wasn’t always easy — just ask Princess Caroline.

The 61-year-old got candid about her upbringing in Monaco with Grace Kelly and Prince Rainier II as parents alongside Prince Albert and Princess Stephanie for Isabelle Rivere in her new book, “Albert II of Monaco: The Main and The Prince," which is scheduled for release Wednesday.

Caroline explained how she and her siblings developed a close, loving relationship with their nanny Maureen Wood.

“For my brother and me, Maureen was the key figure in our life,” admitted Caroline in an excerpt published by Closer Weekly. “When we were little, we were probably closer to our nanny than to our parents.”

Caroline said she and Albert, now 60, would even beg Wood not to go on vacation.

“… Albert and I would yell ‘Don’t go! Don’t go!’ We were sad for days,” she said. “More often than not, our mother would end up calling her to ask her to come home earlier than planned.”

Wood, who was also interviewed for the book, described how important it was to keep Caroline’s parents as central figures of the household, all while maintaining her growing bond with the children.

Wood recalled an evening when she, Albert and Caroline threw a pretend gala dinner of their own when Rainier and Kelly left town for the royal wedding of King Constantine and Queen Anne-Marie of Greece.

“I decided that we would have our own gala dinner at the palace,” said Wood. “The chef cooked a special menu, Caroline wore one of her mother’s gowns, Albert wore a uniform and I wore a gown too. Then we put on music and we danced.”

Kelly, one of the most famous actresses to have ever come out of Hollywood, married Rainier at the height of her popularity at age 26 in 1956. The Alfred Hitchcock muse tragically died in a car crash at age 52 in 1982.

Jay Jorgenson, co-author of “Grace Kelly: Hollywood Dream Girl,” told Fox News in December 2017 the screen siren’s children helped their mom happily settle into life in Monaco over the years, and she was determined to be a hands-on parent within the palace.

“She would make their lunches every day,” said Jorgensen. “They were not allowed to talk down to the servants. In fact, if they did, they were punished. And I think that shows in the way how [her son] Albert is ruling Monaco [today].

"He tried to bring some members of the family that Rainier had disagreements with back… and build a warm relationship, the way Grace did.”

Kelly met an untimely end, but her legacy outside of show business still lives on in Monaco.

“When Caroline took over after Grace died as basically the first lady of Monaco, she tried to make a lot of Grace’s dreams come true,” explained Jorgensen. “She formed a ballet company, which was one of Grace’s dreams. Grace was planning another tour of poetry and Caroline, while she didn’t read poetry, she still went in her place.

“And Albert helped create exhibits of Grace’s gowns. He frequently… talks about her… They also preserved her office in the palace… She continues to be a big part of [her children’s lives], as well as the mythology of Monaco.”Last week, “Deadliest Catch” returned for its 200th episode and 14th season fishing crab on the great Bering Sea. With one of the most competitive and unique seasons behind them, two of the fleet’s youngest captains are opening up about what fans can expect from season 14, what it’s like having their real lives on TV.

Josh Harris and Jake Anderson had a lot riding on them this season, with the former returning after an 18-month break and the latter captaining his first vessel after dumping nearly $750,000 into its repairs. As fans of the show know, these captains not only engage in one of the most dangerous professions, but they do it under the ever-watchful eye of the American public. Both captains have experienced highs and lows, including the loss of family members, all while on TV.

“Every day you get reminded of the worst experiences of your life, but it’s helped somebody out, so you have to look at it as different things,” Harris told Fox News. “For a third of our adult life, we’ve been on TV and what you see is what you get.”

They see their time on the show as less of a burden and more of a motivational poster for the American public.

“You’ve watched two guys accomplish the American dream. You've watched it unfold and it’s funny when you read the comments on social media and it’s like, 'you need to do this, you need to do that,' and I say, ‘You’re missing the point. I’m handing you the American dream, the map, just watch it and you’ll see what you’ll go through climbing the ladder,'" Anderson told Fox News. "You’re going to kick; you’re going to cry; you’re going to scream; you’re going to bleed; you’re going to moan and you’re going to do whatever it takes to climb to the top."

Anderson’s earlier life was marred by drug addiction, which he overcame before finally earning a captain’s position and engaging in the highly lucrative world of king crab fishing.

“Twelve years ago I was a bum on the street,” Anderson said. “Now I run a multi-million dollar company… You can do that in America, but I think it’s getting lost."

The duo are no strangers to working hard to make their living, and this season on the Berings Sea was no exception. Thanks to a super moon, the two told Fox News that this year they saw some large tides, which made the fishing season more dangerous than ever. However, given the necessity and pressure for them to make money, they steered their ships and crew right where they needed to be.

“It’s like the seventh seal of hell out there this year. Because we’ve never experienced this before and no one ever has in recording anything having to do with the seas ever has seen anything like this,” Harris said. “I don’t think it was fit for man or beast out there, but we were still there and that’s what makes it entertaining.”

Anderson said it take a lot of courage to keep going.

“It comes to a point where, if you’re not going to make money, you might as well go on land. You have to just muster up everything you’ve got and trust in your guys and trust you taught them well. You’re going to have to put them in harm's way... every day for 54 days.”

As season 14 continues on Tuesday, the guys teased higher stakes than ever as well as fiery drama between captains and crew. Harris was tasked with winning over a new crew along with his co-captain.

“I think I snapped one time pretty good this season,” he teased. “But nobody got fired, nobody quit and I think all my guys have all ten fingers and toes.”

Meanwhile, with everyone assuming Anderson is desperate to prove himself as a new captain, he teased that his guiding star was not respect, but money.

“I think as a captain… I’m not interested in proving anything to me or anybody. I just want that money in the bank,” Anderson said. “If I’ve got to do it on my own, I’ll do it on my own.”Katy Perry's look of horror was quickly replaced by laughter as she realized she split her pants while filming a scene for "American Idol."

The pop star was sitting next to her fellow judges when she burst out laughing.

"I just split my pants," Perry announced before getting up and showing the audience her wardrobe malfunction, which was later covered up in editing using the show's logo.

Lionel Richie jumped up to try and help Perry but the singer was more interested in showing off her behind than covering it up.

Luke Bryan simply stayed seated as Richie jokingly said, "Save the children."

A crew member then helped Perry patch up her pants with some tape. Perry told her, "Tape my butt" before sitting back down.

Perry tweeted a clip of the incident on Monday.

Perry's wardrobe whoops wasn't enough to boost the show's ratings. Monday night's episode was an all-time low for the series only reaching 1.3 rating in adults 18-49 and 6.9 million viewers, according to Variety. NBC's "The Voice" reached 9.2 million in the same demographic.

It's not the first time Perry has shown too much on the show. She previously had a wardrobe malfunction during the "Idol" auditions, falling on the floor and showing too much.

The 33-year-old has been the center of media attention over "Idol" antics.

She has been criticized for flirting with a slew of male contestants including tricking an unsuspecting male contestant into kissing her on the lips.

She also made headlines ahead of the show’s premiere for other reasons.

As previously reported, Perry is locked in an ongoing property battle against a nun. Perry is hoping to buy a sprawling eight-acre plot of land in California that was previously a convent. Last week, a nun appealed to Pope Francis in the battle against Perry.Scientists are raising alarm bells after two studies found that the Gulf Stream—an ocean current key to regulating Earth's climate—is the weakest it's been in 1,600 years, the Guardian reports.

The culprit is apparently melting sea ice and glaciers, which inject fresh water into the North Atlantic and weaken the stream. "Fiddling with [the Gulf Stream] is very dangerous, because you may well trigger some surprises," says climate scientist Stefan Rahmstorf.

"I wish I knew where this critical tipping point is, but that is unfortunately just what we don’t know." If the stream dies, scientists say, its equatorial heat would stop reaching the North Atlantic—plunging Europe into bone-numbing winters and affecting weather worldwide.

Even subtler changes "could wreak havoc" on the Atlantic Ocean's "delicate ecosystems," Smithsonian reports. The studies differ in approach and timeline but both say the Gulf Stream has diminished by about 15%, Nature reports.

One study spotted it by measuring sediment on the ocean floor and says the problem began when the Little Ice Age subsided around 1850. The other, which analyzed sea surface temperatures combined with advanced climate simulations, says the decline started around 50 years ago.

But both see human-influenced climate change as a cause, Nature says. And with Greenland's huge ice cap melting at a historic rate, some say the Paris climate agreement is our only hope.

"If we can keep the temperature rise to well below 2C as agreed in the Paris agreement, I think we run a small risk of crossing this collapse tipping point," says Rahmstorf.

(Meanwhile the Doomsday Clock has ticked 30 seconds closer to "midnight.")

This article originally appeared on Newser: Dying Gulf Stream May Trigger a Global NightmareJust when condiment enthusiasts made room in their refrigerators – and hearts – for Mayochup, Heinz has announced the controversial condiment may go by a different name when it’s released stateside.

On April 11, the food processing company posted a poll on Twitter offering to bring the mayonnaise and ketchup confection to American store shelves if there was enough interest. With 55% of fans clicking “yes" out of nearly 930,700 votes to date, Heinz has since confirmed on the social network that Mayochup will indeed be making its U.S. debut - but perhaps by another moniker.

DOMINO'S WILL NOW DELIVER PIZZA TO BEACHES, PARKS, AND OTHER 'UNEXPECTED' SITES

“We heard you saucy Americans and we’re bringing you our version of the delicious duo you’ve been eating for years. Are you Team Mayochup or should we call it something else? Let us know your thoughts!” the brand’s official account wrote on April 16.

In the hours since, over 2,000 comments have poured in, both exalting and condemning the impending arrival of Mayochup.

MCDONALD’S MANAGER APOLOGIZES FOR SLAPPING CUSTOMER, SAYS WOMAN THREW COFFEE AT HER FIRST

Some fans declared that they had been waiting their "whole lives" for the product, while others wrote it off as "gross."

Meanwhile, "tomayo," "kayo," and "ketchonaise" are all gaining traction as trending names, while residents of Utah and Puerto Rico say that that mayo-ketchup blended condiments have been available for sale for years.

In the meantime, until Heinz announces an official release date, Americans will have to blend mayonnaise and ketchup on their own - or venture to Dubai, as the condiment is only available in the Arab Gulf.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSEvery now and then a car that was stolen years, or even decades ago turns up out of the blue, much to the surprise and delight of its original owner.

But car parts?

A mechanic in the U.K. was poking around on Facebook recently when he spotted some used parts for sale that looked strangely familiar.

They were for a Renault 5 GT Turbo, just like the one he’d been customizing 19 years earlier when it got stripped for parts by a rogue employee at a paint shop, Phil Abiodum told The Sunday Mirror.

Shortly after the theft, he found some gauges and a bumper that had been installed on a different car that he noticed on the side of the road. The owner told him that he’d bought them from the crook before he disappeared, not knowing they were hot property.

Abiodium got those parts back, but couldn’t find the rest.

He thinks he has now.

He recognized them in the posting by a few telltale modifications he remembers making, including a couple of distinctive vents in a hood, and said he has reached out to their current owner about the issue.

“I don’t believe the seller has done anything wrong – they were taken 19 years ago. They could’ve been sold on several times,” Abiodium told the newspaper.

He’s also told the police about the matter, but he doesn’t think they’re taking his claim too seriously.

“But they’re stolen goods, no matter how long ago it was. Those parts are definitely mine – and I’d like them back.”

Back when the parts went missing, Abiodium figures the car was worth around $2,000, but today it would likely go for closer to $15,000.An NFL player returned to his home county in Alabama recently to escort a young fan to her high school prom. Don Jones, a defensive back for the San Francisco 49ers, helped 18-year-old Lindsey Preston, who has Down syndrome, boogie the night away with her classmates on Friday.

Preston’s mother is friendly with Jones’ family, and had asked him to accompany her daughter to the big dance last year.

ORGANS FROM OVERDOSE VICTIMS MAY SAVE THOUSANDS ON TRANSPLANT WAITING LIST

Jones, 27, wore a black tuxedo to match Preston’s black dress, and the pair posed for pictures before stealing the show on the dance floor. They tore it up to school dance classics like the Cha Cha Slide, and the Cupid Shuffle.

“Anything I can do to make some kids smile, I would be more than willing to do,” Jones told WBRC. “I think the most fun was all of the guys, I showed the guys about 5 or 6 new dance moves.”

Jones played for Arkansas State before entering the NFL, and has spent time with the Miami Dolphins, New England Patriots, New Orleans Saints, Cleveland Browns and Houston Texans.Former first lady Barbara Bush’s decision to not seek additional medical treatment and instead focus on “comfort care” shortly before her death Tuesday put a spotlight on a hard and painful question millions of Americans are confronted with every year: When is it the right time to back off from the most aggressive options of modern medical technology and treatment?

My patients all want to know the right answer to this crucial question, but there is no right answer that applies to everyone. We are all different. The smartest doctors apply their guidance on a one-on-one basis. The right answer for some of us is the wrong answer for others.

Is there a specific age or diagnosis that causes us to turn down the medical heat? No, there isn’t. None of us carries expiration dates. There is no medical “off” switch set with an automatic timer.

Mrs. Bush, who was 92 when she died, led an incredible life – one of only two women in American history who has been both the wife and the mother of a president, the other being Abigail Adams.

A pioneer on the issues of literacy and volunteerism, the former first lady at the end of her life led the way towards considering quality of life in terms other than simply brain function or pain from cancer.

When do you conclude you’ve come to the end of your life? There are questions and more questions.

How is your breathing? How many infections have you had in the past year? How many emergency trips to the hospital have you had to make? How uncomfortable are you on a daily or hourly basis? How would you rate the quality of your life?

We are all mortal, destined to exit this world at some point. How hard do you want to fight, how much pain and discomfort do you want to endure, simply to go on for a few more days, weeks or months?

This is as momentous a personal decision as any of us will ever face – but it is also a decision that affects our society. More than a quarter of Medicare payments go to people in their last year of life.

This is not to say that everyone over 90 years old should accept a lower level of care. My father is 94 years old, and though somewhat feeble, he still enjoys his life, can walk and is in no discomfort or pain. This is why when a failing heart valve threatened to kill him last year he opted for a new kind of pig valve, floated in through a catheter, which saved him.

The price tag for my father’s surgery was $50,000, and Medicare covered it. The valve is expected to last 10 years, and so far my father is not wasting the new opportunity the valve has given him. But as technology continues to advance and become more and more expensive, it also becomes more and more relevant to ask whether the results are worth it. For my dad, they are. But the same isn’t true for everyone.

By contrast, my friend’s 96-year-old father-in-law recently became bed-bound and passed away from lack of eating and opioids for bone pain prescribed by hospice care. A prodigious bowler, he fought for his life as long as he could still make it out to the lanes.

In his last years bowling became a yardstick for his quality of life and will to live. When he could no longer bowl or even walk, he resisted recurrent trips to and from the hospital and bowed out with dignity. This was his right.

Barbara Bush answered the question of when to scale back care for herself in a courageous way that can help guide others in similar straits. Faced with recurrent hospitalizations over the past year and shortness of breath from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (chronic bronchitis, emphysema), and heart failure, she opted Sunday to choose comfort care instead.

What is comfort care?

Comfort care means Mrs. Bush likely tried to enjoy her remaining days at home as best as possible – with food, oxygen and basic medicines – rather than being rushed to a hospital emergency room, trying to postpone the inevitable.

Barbara Bush lived a very valuable life. She was famous for putting the welfare of others – including her family – first. In her final days, she became a role model for knowing when to respond to the deteriorating quality of life by accepting impending death.

This decision is especially important when it comes to chronic diseases like COPD and heart failure, where it is hard to know where to draw the line. We live in an era of heart and lung transplants, emergency stents and valve replacements. But over the age of 90, the body may deteriorate in ways that are no longer possible to reverse, despite the greatest medical advances.

When it comes to cancer, the decisions are relatively straightforward: remove it surgically if possible, if not then treat with radiation or chemotherapy or consider the latest immunotherapies. Effective new diagnostic tools can tell us if cancer has spread and if we are losing the war or winning it. A decision can made by the patient, family and treating oncologist that the war has been lost.

So comfort care is often reserved for patients with terminal cancer, a severe stroke, brain damage or another condition that dramatically lowers the quality of life. In fact, studies have shown that those with severe heart failure or COPD are often resistant to receiving comfort care.

Barbara Bush showed us the way to a different approach – an approach that is more spiritual and quality-based, and less about all-treatment-is-automatically-good no matter what. She lived her life with class and strength. She died the same way. We were all blessed to have her as our first lady.The first time my husband, Peter McMahon, met Barbara Bush, he was hooked. We were invited to have lunch with President George H. W. Bush and the former First Lady in Houston in 2010. It was a special treat, especially for Peter who had become an American citizen in 2006.

After we ate, the president and I sat talking, well, gossiping really, and Peter and Mrs. Bush walked in the garden outside with their two dogs.

As we said our goodbyes, Peter got in the car and said, “I think I have a new crush.”

“I think she heard you,” I said.

“I don’t care. I want her to know!”

He continued to describe her - she’s charming, smart, hilarious, engaging....a thesaurus couldn’t do Barbara Bush justice.

During the lunch, we’d talked about thank you notes and their importance. Upon returning to Washington, D.C., Peter wrote one but he didn’t have the address. I was traveling for several days, so the letter didn’t get sent for a couple of weeks.

It is a privilege to see their family having fun, no cameras around, making fun of each other and catching up. “We are so very blessed,” Mrs. Bush said. She lived with gratitude, which is one of the lessons she taught that I will try to remember.

The next time we saw her, she said with a smile to Peter, “Well, that was the latest thank you note I ever received.” He was in his fifties, but he reddened with embarrassment. Because Barbara Bush was a woman you didn’t want to disappoint. Of course, she followed that up with a smile and a knowing look. The crush deepened.

As a former staffer for her son’s presidency, Mrs. Bush knew me as someone loyal to him and to her entire family. She seemed to trust me, and that meant the world.

Perhaps that was part of her success as one of America’s beloved First Ladies. Barbara Bush didn’t have to rule with an iron fist - one look of disapproval could melt you. Around her you were on your toes and alert - I learned to come ready with some new bit of information about what was going on in politics and television or with a recommendation on a new book she might like.

In 2011, I invited Mrs. Bush to kick off a Minute Mentoring event in Houston. She said, “Why would you want me? I’ve never worked a day in my life.”

While true that she never earned a paycheck, she worked her tail off for her family, her staff, her country. She donated all of her book proceeds to charity.

In brief remarks before the mentoring session, she said “Earlier today I called George and asked him about working with Dana. And then I called Dana and asked her about working with George. And the advice I can give to you is that listening to the two of them describe working together, that loyalty goes both ways.”

It sure does.

Two summers ago, we visited her and President Bush in Kennebunkport. We were fortunate to be invited for lunch and their children were all there. It is a privilege to see their family having fun, no cameras around, making fun of each other and catching up. Peter helped Mrs. Bush fill her plate and she said, “We are so very blessed.” She lived with gratitude, which is one of the lessons she taught that I will try to remember.

After lunch, we took Jasper to Gooch’s Beach, where dogs are allowed to run off leash after 5 pm. He had a great time, and we were reluctant to leave. As we were packing up the car, a local woman said, “Excuse me, I see you’re not from around here.” She’d noticed our New York license plates.

“No ma’am, we aren’t. But we sure enjoy it.”

“Well, I just wanted to point out to you - do you see that woman over there, with the two little dogs, two men walking behind her? That’s First Lady Barbara Bush. We love her. And I just thought you’d like to know that she walks this beach with her dogs every day.”

“Thank you, ma’am. I know she is very special to you,” I said.

And to us, too.

And now, we are all crushed. Barbara Bush has left us, but everything she gave us remains. We -- her family, her friends, Americans who loved and admired her -- even those who just knew her from walking her dogs! -- still love her. As she loved this country. With Barbara Bush, that too will always go both ways.When I was young, little girls didn’t really imagine they could grow up to be President of the United States, so instead we dreamed of being The First Lady. As I grew older, though, I eventually realized that role is not one you can aspire to or choose – instead you choose a spouse – and choose to share in their life path - wherever it takes you. And for a special group of ladies, that choice has taken them to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, to live in the White House.

On November 4, 1991, The Ronald Reagan Presidential Library was dedicated with great fanfare and I had the opportunity to interact with six of these remarkable women. Each so different in style and stature and presence, yet all sharing a very unique and special bond of having served in one of the most prominent and important roles, supporting and encouraging the President of the United States.

Barbara Bush was the sitting First Lady at the time and was understandably in charge, though I have a feeling she was usually in charge of any situation she walked into. She carried herself with a confidence and a kindness that knew no strangers, and knew no barriers. (And yes, of course, she was wearing her signature pearls, just as she was every subsequent time I saw her!)

As I looked into the eyes of each of these women - Barbara Bush, Nancy Reagan, Rosalynn Carter, Betty Ford, Pat Nixon – and even Lady Bird Johnson – I couldn’t begin to imagine all they had seen and experienced and done and endured. From the height of celebration as victories were shared, to the depths of despair as tragedy struck or crisis emerged, each had remained a pillar of strength, not only to their husbands, but also to the nation. And each had risen to the occasion beautifully – with poise and grace and an elegance I’m sure even they never imagined they could summon

Some may say Barbara Bush received a double dose of personality, and I mean that in the most endearing way. When she entered the room you knew it. Engaged and enthusiastic, talking to anyone and everyone and unafraid to voice her opinion, she was a warm and powerful presence.

I don’t know what each one of them had imagined their life would be – or who they thought they would become – yet I’m fairly confident none of them imagined joining this elite sorority of women who helps shape the course of history.

In fact, most first ladies probably never gave thought to a political life.

Martha Washington married a surveyor.

Melania Trump married a businessman.

Nancy Reagan married an actor.

Others have married lawyers, teachers, engineers, judges – even a postmaster and a tailor.

And Barbara Bush married a Naval Officer. Or so she thought. So perhaps being The First Lady of The United States of America, or FLOTUS for short, was something she couldn’t have imagined then, yet she seemed perfectly suited for the role once she inherited it.

First Ladies are not elected, nor are they paid, yet the expectations and demands placed upon them are enormous. They are the hostess of the White House, attend ceremonial and social events with the president and most importantly, are a companion and confidant for the President of the United States as he fulfills his formal duties. With so few guidelines, every First Lady has the opportunity to embrace the role with their own style and approach it with their unique skills, talents, background and personality.

And personality is certainly something Barbara Bush brought to the role. Some may say she received a double dose of personality, and I mean that in the most endearing way. When she entered the room you knew it. Engaged and enthusiastic, talking to anyone and everyone and unafraid to voice her opinion, she was a warm and powerful presence.

The next time I saw Barbara Bush was when she and President Bush came to visit President and Mrs. Reagan at the Reagan’s home in Bel Air. I always thought that was a very special gesture, since it would have been much simpler for the Reagans to visit the Bushes at their hotel. Moving the sitting President anywhere is logistically challenging, and doing so through the winding streets of Bel Air and up the long narrow driveway of the Reagans’ home with a presidential motorcade was quite a spectacle.

With the whirr of the helicopters overhead and the screech of sirens heard in the distance, then quickly approaching, there was no doubt their arrival was imminent. The parade of cars pulled up the driveway as the Reagans exited their front door to welcome the Bushes. The four greeted each other warmly and enthusiastically, practically all talking simultaneously, as if needing to make up for lost time. There were smiles and hugs and an invitation to come inside while the multitude of security and staff lingered outside in the driveway and Secret Service navigated turning the motorcade around for departure, which proved to be quite a feat!

While outside was organized chaos, inside was warm and comfortable, relaxed and gracious. Especially while in the midst of the Bush presidency, there was a comfort and a camaraderie that can only be found and understood by someone else who has been there. And the Reagans, early in their post-presidency years, were supportive and sympathetic, and clearly relieved to be on the other side of those exhilarating, but demanding years.

Watching these two couples interact, casually, as friends, was so special. Mrs. Reagan used to love to perch on a little stool that pulled out from under the coffee table rather than sitting on the sofa or one of the stuffed side chairs. Deep in conversation, leaning in closely to Barbara Bush, I got the feeling that these two first ladies could solve any problem or overcome any obstacle that came their way. To think of all the people they had graciously hosted and entertained on behalf of the United States, from kings and queens to war heroes and everyday patriotic Americans and now to see them talking, laughing and catching up on life and just enjoying each other’s company was memorable indeed.

Over my years of working with the Reagans I was blessed to see President and Mrs. Bush on numerous occasions, some sad and somber, like at the funeral for President Nixon, where once again the presidents and first ladies gathered to say goodbye to one of their own. Other times were much more celebratory, like when she welcomed President and Mrs. Reagan to the White House for President Reagan to receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Bush. To witness Mrs. Bush as the true White House hostess was especially interesting to watch as the Reagans certainly didn’t need a tour, but she made sure to point out Mrs. Reagan’s new official portrait hanging on the wall, knowing President Reagan especially would want to see it. This home they all had lived in that was already full of so many memories was now adding one more on this very special day.

As the Reagans were departing, Barbara Bush stopped Ronald Reagan, still wearing his medal, and took him by both arms, looking admiringly up at him and told him how good he looked, how wonderful it was to see him, how happy she was to share in this special day and how proud she was to have had him honored in this well-deserved way. She then added an invitation to come visit her and George anytime. And by the look in her eyes you knew she meant it.

Another time I saw Barbara Bush was up in President Reagan’s post presidency office. She and President Bush dropped by for a brief visit with President and Mrs. Reagan and as Barbara Bush walked into the office she looked at me, nearly nine months pregnant, and in her very straightforward Barbara Bush style walked right up to me and said, “When are you due”? I replied, “In just a few weeks”, to which she responded, “I can’t believe tiny pregnant people like you – I was as big as a house.” And with that she turned and followed her husband in to visit with the Reagans. Classic Barbara Bush – opinionated, straightforward, didn’t mince words.

This type of authenticity that endeared her to people. It was 1996 and President Reagan had already announced to the world he had Alzheimer’s. That visit was a particularly difficult one as it was likely among one of their last with President Reagan. There was kindness and tenderness in the visit, but it was much more subdued than previous visits, the air full of the lingering reality of loss ahead. I saw the sadness in her eyes and in the eyes of her husband. She remained outwardly cheerful, yet hugged Mrs. Reagan extra tightly as she was leaving, looking deeply into her eyes, saying with her expressions all that she didn’t want to say aloud in front of President Reagan.

Yet Barbara Bush was not one to wallow in emotions, so as the two presidents were saying what may have been one final goodbye, she turned and lovingly grabbed her husband’s hand, pulling him along, knowing he didn’t want to leave. I can only imagine their conversation in the car as they left, Barbara once again providing comfort and support to her husband, as he would eventually face the personally sad and devastating loss of his dear friend, Ron.

And that’s how I’ll remember Barbara Bush, a take charge, no nonsense lady whose curiosity for those around her was uninhibited, and her love for her husband was unlimited. She served our country with great passion and patriotism. And even raised a little boy to believe that he, too, could become President of the United States as well. She advanced the cause of literacy, knowing that through reading, the world becomes attainable. And knowing that through books some little girl somewhere, unlike me, could not only dream of becoming a First Lady, but could dream of becoming the President. I’m sure that someday nothing would please this tireless symbol of poise and power more.

Thank you Barbara Bush for your service to our great nation. You are remembered with admiration and celebration.When Barbara Bush shared a draft of her memoir with her editor, she was told she was only allowed to use the words wonderful once a page, and precious once a chapter. The term close friends was also added to the list for limited use. How was it possible that someone could have so many close friends?

Barbara Bush led a joyous life filled with the love of a precious family, the treasure of wonderful, close friends, a deep faith, and innumerable adventures and travels that took her all over our country and around the world. Her life is also defined by her example of committing to “causes larger than yourself.” Among the many causes she chose was literacy because she “believed that if more people could read, write and comprehend we would be that much closer to solving so many problems plaguing our society.”

She believed life’s choices must bring one joy. To her, her most important decision was to marry George H.W. Bush. She loved that he made her laugh – even through the tears. Their love affair has lasted 73 years – the longest presidential marriage in U.S. history. As a wife, mother, grandmother, great grandmother – she was devoted to her family and as her son George W. Bush said, “she taught us how to live, love, and laugh.

Over the last several days, former colleagues from the White House years have been reminiscing about the lessons we all learned from Barbara Bush, too. One referred to her as a “mother to all of us”; another was reminded when, after days of him being on the 1988 campaign trail wrangling the press by having to kneel on pavement, Mrs. Bush looked at him at the end of that trip with a wry smile said it was “time to get your suit cleaned” while on a three-day break from travels.

Her former East Wing projects director tells the story that in her first days as first lady, Barbara Bush told her staff “that each day we should do something to help others.” Barbara Bush didn’t want to waste the great opportunity before her. Every event she did highlighted a need, helped encourage volunteerism, or focused on literacy. As longtime friend and White House aide Andy Card said, “she motivated all of us to be better people.”

When my son was about to graduate high school two years ago and looking at colleges she offered him this invaluable advice over lunch: “shoot high, don’t use drugs, and don’t lie.” The latter, she said, ruined Richard Nixon’s reputation and hurt the presidency.

Her interest in motivating us extended to our families. She was particularly interested in our love life, celebrated our marriages and the arrival of children. When I began seriously dating President Bush’s former personal aide they were interested to see us together. They loved him and I wanted to make a good impression. The opportunity came in the form of an invitation to the State Dinner for the President of Brazil. Talk about no pressure. When we got engaged she wanted to see the ring. After we got married she invited us to a movie in the White House Theater. I don’t remember the movie but I will never forget that evening.

Reading the many notes she wrote to my husband and me over the years and looking through the photos we have with her and President Bush has provided solace and many laughs. Several of those photos are ones she took with her own little camera that she carried everywhere, later printing them out, adding a caption and sending them as keepsakes for the kids’ scrapbooks. When my son was about to graduate high school two years ago and looking at colleges she offered him this invaluable advice over lunch: “shoot high, don’t use drugs, and don’t lie.” The latter, she said, ruined Richard Nixon’s reputation and hurt the presidency.

One event all of us on the White House staff – especially the young women – remember is when Mrs. Bush was invited to deliver the 1990 commencement address at Wellesley College. Students protested her selection because they felt Mrs. Bush had gained recognition through the achievements of her husband and not through her own merit. That Wellesley flap took on a life of its own. The networks carried the speech live and I watched it in my White House office. The build up added so much pressure but Mrs. Bush was confident with her speech and the lessons she wanted to share with the students. She started by responding to the backlash with her characteristic humor and wit. “I know your first choice for today was Alice Walker, known for The Color Purple, instead you got me, known for the color of my hair.” Laughter was exactly what was needed to cut through all that tension.

Two months before the Wellesley commencement, the White House announced that Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev and his wife Raisa would be making a visit to Washington. The date presented a conflict with the graduation. In a deft diplomatic move, Mrs. Bush quietly invited Mrs. Gorbachev to accompany her and suggested that she, too, address the graduates. After nearly two months Mrs. Gorbachev finally responded. When it was announced, the press speculated that Mrs. Gorbachev had been invited so that Mrs. Bush “could hide behind her skirts.” The reality was Mrs. Bush believed that this was an opportunity for Mrs. Gorbachev, a Soviet university professor, to give her first speech in the U.S. at an American college campus and tell the graduates about women in her country.

Barbara Bush fully appreciated that Wellesley had impressed upon these young women the importance of dedication and hard work to their career. She reminded them, though, they are human beings first and the most important investments they will make are the human connections. She went on to tell them that at the end of their life, one thing they will never regret was “time not spent with a spouse, a friend, a child, a parent.”

Barbara Bush has deeply enriched the lives of her precious family, her many wonderful close friends, and the life of our country with wise counsel, a comforting word, humor, her characteristic candor and, yes, her tears and hugs. One of the treasured notes I have from her is a thank you for inviting her to participate in several of American University’s Legacies of America’s First Ladies conferences. She was so humble about her own contributions and especially loved sharing the stage with her daughter-in-law Laura Bush. They hold a unique place in history having lived through each other’s experience as First Lady of the United States. I am so grateful to have have had a front row seat having worked for both of them and their husbands.

Our country has lost one of its great citizens and we will miss her. The sadness we feel is enlivened by the words statesman Adlai Stevenson used during his eulogy at the United Nations in honor of another great first lady – Eleanor Roosevelt – “she would rather light candles than curse the darkness and her glow had warmed the world. “ Rest in peace, Mrs. Bush.Thousands of popular children’s apps available for download on Google Play may be violating child privacy laws, according to a new study, drawing more attention to big tech’s data-collection efforts.

The study analyzed 5,855 of the most popular free children’s apps and found that a majority of them may be violating the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). According to the study, thousands of the tested apps collected the personal data of children under age 13 without a parent’s permission.

“This is a market failure,” Serge Egelman, a co-author of the study and the director of usable security and privacy research at the International Computer Science Institute at UC-Berkeley, told the Washington Post. “The rampant potential violations that we have uncovered points out basic enforcement work that needs to be done.”

#DELETEFACEBOOK? FOR MOST AMERICANS, NOT YET

The researchers found that potential privacy violations came in different forms. More than 1,100 children’s apps collect identifying information from kids using tracking software whose terms of service actually prohibit their use for children’s apps. Researchers also found that nearly half the apps are not taking “reasonable procedures to protect the confidentiality, security, and integrity of personal information collected from children.”

A Google spokesperson told Fox News they are looking into the report’s findings and provided the following statement:

“We’re taking the researchers’ report very seriously. Protecting kids and families is a top priority, and our Designed for Families program requires developers to abide by specific requirements above and beyond our standard Google Play policies. If we determine that an app violates our policies, we will take action. We always appreciate the research community’s work to help make the Android ecosystem safer.”

TRUST IN FACEBOOK PLUMMETS AFTER CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA SCANDAL, ZUCKERBERG TESTIMONY

However, as the study notes, the Designed for Families program is an “optional review process” that allows developers to list compliant apps under family-friendly categories and areas relevant to children under age 13.

The study’s authors used an automated analysis on apps that agreed to abide by COPPA as part of their inclusion in the Designed for Families program, but it found that 28 percent of them still accessed sensitive data and 73 percent of them transmitted sensitive data over the Internet.

Each of the 5,855 apps under review was installed more than 750,000 times, on average, according to the study, which was called "'Won't Somebody Think of the Children?' Examining COPPA Compliance at Scale.'" Some of the apps in question included Disney’s “Where’s My Water?,” Gameloft’s “Minion Rush” and Duolingo, a language learning app.

“This study, by the authors’ own admission, does not claim to identify any actual violation of COPPA. Protecting children’s online privacy is very important to us and we are confident that our practices adhere to the law. We have a robust COPPA compliance program, and we maintain strict data collection and use policies for Disney apps created for children and families,” a Disney spokesperson responded.

As politicians and other critics have noted, Google and other companies in the data-monetization business have reaped massive profits from consumer information as regulators have not managed to keep up with the pace of change.

“Google has basically looked the other way while it was able to generate revenues off of children's apps,” Jeffrey Chester, the executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, told the Washington Post. “The new, alarming report is further evidence that Google is thumbing its nose at the only federal online privacy law that we have.”A now 15-year-old boy from Iceland used 56,000 Legos to build a replica of one of the world’s most famous ships: the Titanic.

Brynjar Karl Bigisson, from Reykjavik, the country’s capital, built the model when he was just 10 years old. It has since been on display in countries all over the world, including Germany, Sweden, Norway and beyond -- but can now be found at the Titanic Museum in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee.

At 26-feet-long, 5-feet-tall and 4-feet wide, the replica is the world's largest Titanic model built with Legos. It took Brynjar 11 months -- roughly 700 hours -- to complete the project, he told the museum.

The Titanic sank on April 15, 1912 while crossing the Atlantic from Western Europe to the U.S. Roughly 1,500 people out of the 2,240 on board died after the ship struck an iceberg.

The boy first started playing with Legos when he was 5, but it wasn’t until his mother took him to Legoland in Denmark that he started to think about making his very own Lego model.

"By the time I was 10, I started to think about building the Lego Titanic model in a Lego man size," Brynjar said. The teen told Fox News on Tuesday that he chose the Titanic because it is "very unique and the first ship I ever discovered."

His grandfather, Ludvik Baldur Ögmundsson, scaled down the ship’s original blueprint to find out exactly how many Lego bricks he would need. His mother, Bjarney Sigrun Ludviksdottir, acted as his “coach and mentor."

“In the beginning when he started to ask me if I could help him, I wasn't taking him too seriously to tell you the truth,” Ludviksdottir told Fox News.

But Brynjar was insistent.

“I knew it was a crazy project, but I decided to go into the whole idea and then see what came out of it,” she said. “As months went by, amazing things were happening -- he began to shine.”

Brynjar added that family and friends donated money so he could buy all the Lego bricks needed for the project. Building the replica was no easy feat: the 15-year-old said he considered to “stop this crazy project” a few different times, especially after the ship’s stern collapsed twice.

Seeing his goal through has helped Brynjar in one particular aspect of his life: accepting his autism.

“I understand much better today that it’s not only the model that was the attraction, it was my story and how the whole process helped me out of the fog,” he told the museum.

Before he started the project, the 15-year-old had trouble with communication and social interactions. But as people began to ask questions about the replica, that all changed.

Ludviksdottir said that is was special for her when she noticed her son look people in the eyes, an aspect of communication he had trouble with prior to building the replica.

The teen’s grades have also gone up and his classmates began “seeing him as another kid, not just autistic," his mother said.

“I’m very thankful for it,” Brynjar said of the experience.

“Being Autistic can sound a bit scary because there is no cure or pill to fix it, but there are ways to become more functional. My story has given parents of autistic kids hope, that this diagnosis is not that terrible,” he told the museum.

His mother echoed this sentiment.

“I always say to parents who have kids with autism that it’s just a matter of training their weaknesses -- just like athletes,” Ludviksdottir added.

Brynjar said his Lego-building days are over; he hopes to become the captain of a ship one day.

“It has been so special for me,” the teen said. “It has helped me very much.”Twitter was offline for many users across the globe early on Tuesday.

“Something is technically wrong,” said a message on the platform just after 10 a.m. EDT. “Thanks for noticing – we’re going to fix it up and have things back to normal soon.”

At 10:45 a.m. EDT Twitter Support tweeted that the issue had been resolved.

The Down Detector website reported that Twitter had been experiencing problems since 9:50 a.m. EDT. From the U.S. to Argentina, Greece and the Philippines, many users reported that Twitter was down, although some said they were able to access the service.

Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersUser trust in Facebook has plummeted in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica data scandal and CEO Mark Zuckerberg's recent testimony to Congress, according to new research.

A survey conducted by the Ponemon Institute, a U.S.-based think tank, found that just 27 percent of 3,000 respondents believe Facebook will protect their privacy and user data, down from 79 percent in 2017. The survey's results were first reported by The Financial Times.

Larry Ponemon, the chairman of the think tank, said the Zuckerberg-led Facebook received high scores in the past due to its users spending a significant amount of time on its properties. “They put Facebook on such a high pedestal that the bottom is more painful,” he said, according to the FT.

#DELETEFACEBOOK? FOR MOST AMERICANS, NOT YET

The average user spends approximately 60 minutes per day on Facebook's various properties, which including Instagram, Messenger, WhatsApp, and the social network network itself. However, Facebook did note in its fourth-quarter earnings results that changes the company made reduced "time spent on Facebook by roughly 50 million hours every day."

The survey results are particularly damning for Facebook, given that, in previous years, respondents to the research had become increasingly comfortable trusting the social network with their privacy. From 2011 to 2017, the number of users who agreed with the statement: "Facebook is committed to protecting the privacy of my personal information" had grown to nearly 80 percent.

One week after the revelations about the data scandal were made public, that number fell sharply, but had started to rebound two weeks after. It was after Zuckerberg's testimony that the number started to fall again.

The drop in confidence also correlates with a sharp drop in Facebook's market value. Since the revelations came to light, Facebook's market cap has dropped nearly $80 billion. In recent days, however, its value has rebounded somewhat, along with the broader market.

FACEBOOK IN CRISIS: MARK ZUCKERBERG'S TESTIMONY REVEALS MASSIVE PROBLEMS REMAIN

Though the drop in confidence is no doubt a significant blow for the company, the survey results are not all bad.

The majority of respondents said it was not likely or there would be no chance they spend less time using the social network.

Last week, The Wall Street Journal reported that Facebook vice president of marketing Carolyn Everson said the company does not expect a negative impact to its revenue over the privacy concerns.

Facebook is slated to report first-quarter results after the close of trading on April 25.

Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_CiacciaBanking heir and cryptocurrency bigwig Matthew Mellon has died, a representative for his family said in a statement.

Mellon, an early backer of global settlement network Ripple, was the ex-husband of Jimmy Choo guru Tamara Mellon and of designer Nicole Hanley, his second wife.

A rep said in a statement: “Billionaire Matthew Mellon, 53, died suddenly in Cancun, Mexico, where he was attending a drug rehabilitation facility. Mellon made his fortune in cryptocurrency, turning a $2 million investment into $1 billion. He is survived by his three children, Force, Olympia and Minty. The family asks that their privacy be respected at this very painful time.”

Mellon, a former chair of the New York Republican Party’s finance committee, had battled addiction.

In 2016, he told The Post, “OxyContin is like legal heroin. And it needs to be addressed,” while at a Malibu treatment center kicking a habit of $100,000 a month.

But he was in Forbes this year for his latest investments.

Click for more from The New York PostBuick has delivered a handful of knockout concept cars in the past few years. From Avenir to Avista, each has carried an elegant and luxurious design. Now, meet the Buick Enspire—a battery-electric SUV concept.

The brand revealed the Enspire on Tuesday ahead of its formal reveal at the Beijing auto show next week and delivered a few key details. Foremost, Buick said the Enspire will go 370 miles on a single charge, though the company didn't dive into powertrain details or what measurement standard determines that 370 miles. Thus far, all we know is the Enspire concept boasts Buick's "eMotion electric propulsion technology," which delivers a stout 550 horsepower. Additionally, the Enspire concept supports fast and wireless charging; Buick said 80 percent of the battery can be juiced up in just 40 minutes, but the company didn't share details on the onboard charger or the type of charger used to achieve that charging time.

Glancing over the design, the Enspire concept shares a handful of details with recent Buick concepts. The headlight treatment is similar to Avista sports coupe concept, though the front grille features a more integrated winged element. The grille also features a blue hue, likely a nod to China's "Buick Blue" new-energy vehicle strategy.

At the rear, a thin LED-light strip stretches across the back end, encompassing the taillights. Just below it, a Buick badge sits squarely in place with "BUICK" spelled out below. That's particularly interesting since Buick recently went to a lot of trouble explaining why future cars won't spell out "Buick" on the rear. Future cars will only feature the tri-color badge for global badging consistency.

Peeking inside the cabin reveals a futuristic space. An OLED screen is front-and-center with an advanced augmented-reality head-up display system, while natural woodgrain and suede wash over the interior surfaces. Buick said the interior theme is "surround skyline" to create an open and airy feeling.

We'll likely learn more about the Enspire electric SUV concept at its debut in Beijing next week, and whether this SUV has any chances of making its way into production. Stay tuned.

MORE AUTOMOTIVE NEWS FROM MOTOR AUTHORITYDarrell Wallace, Jr., made history on Monday when he became the first African American driver to lead a NASCAR race since Wendell Scott won at Jacksonville in 1963.

Wallace moved into the front on lap 375 of the rain-delayed Food City 500 at Bristol Motor Speedway, but lost the lead to eventual race winner Kyle Busch six laps later as the handling of his Richard Petty Motorsports Chevrolet Camaro deteriorated.

“I don’t know what happened, I have no idea,” Wallace said in an emotional video he posted to Twitter.

--CONTAINS NSFW LANGUAGE:

“We went from leading the race to probably the worst car out there.”

“I’m just absolutely devastated, dejected, defeated.”

The 24-year-old driver finished in what he considered to be a disappointing 16th place, but that was good enough to make him the top rookie in what Dale Earnhardt Jr. called “an incredibly challenging race,” in a tweet that garnered an outpouring of positive comments about the Alabama-born driver who goes by the nickname "Bubba."

Wallace currently sits in 21st place in his first full NASCAR Cup season as the series heads to Richmond this weekend.

ARE YOU FOLLOWING FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK YET?Tesla is suspending production of its Model 3 sedan for four or five days this week in order to make some tweaks to increase the speed of the process..

The move comes just days after Elon Musk told CBS News that an overreliance on automation was preventing the automaker from ramping up production of its first mass-market model.

"Yes, excessive automation at Tesla was a mistake. To be precise, my mistake. Humans are underrated," Musk tweeted following the airing of the CBS report.

This is the second time the line has been stopped in 2018, but a Tesla representative said that both were pre-planned.

“These periods are used to improve automation and systematically address bottlenecks in order to increase production rates.”

Industry analyst Dave Sullivan of AutoPacific told Bloomberg News that the shutdown was unusual.

“Traditional automakers adjust bottlenecks on the fly during a launch. This is totally out of the ordinary,” Sullivan said.

Tesla reached a build rate of 2,000 Model 3s per week at the end of March, which was short of its target of 2,500. It is now aiming to hit 5,000 per week before July.

Model S and X production will continue during the pause in Model 3 output.Kyle Busch stood on the hood of his No. 18 Toyota shaking his fists as the snow began falling around him. It was that kind of a long weekend at Bristol Motor Speedway.

Busch won the rain-delayed race at the half-mile track on a cold, dark Monday for his second straight Cup Series victory. He also won last weekend at Texas.

Busch passed Kyle Larson with five laps remaining following a restart with 22 laps left.

It was Busch's 45th career Cup win and marks the fifth time that he has won back-to-back races. It also was Busch's seventh win at Bristol.

A frustrated Larson finished second while Jimmie Johnson was third, earning his first top-five finish of the season. Ricky Stenhouse Jr. was fourth and Alex Bowman finished fifth.

Larson led 200 of the 500 laps but had to hold off Busch and Stenhouse after the last restart. He did for a while, but Busch passed him and began to pull away.

Brad Keselowski won the first two stages and appeared to be the car to beat. However, the No. 2 Ford struggled on a long green-flag run late in the race and fell two laps behind after radioing in that something broke in his suspension. Keselowski hit the wall with 30 laps left, bringing out the final caution.

Larson was leading when the race was postponed Sunday with 296 laps remaining after being delayed several times because of rain. The race also was delayed Monday for about 35 minutes, but the cars finally got back on the track after the rain and sleet subsided.

WHO'S HOT: Daniel Suarez raced with a fractured thumb he suffered last week at Texas and finished in 11th place. Now that deserves a thumbs-up.

WHO'S NOT: Martin Truex Jr. continues to have a difficult time following up a tremendous championship season in 2017. He was in a wreck on Sunday and raced Monday without a hood, saying his goal was to "stay out of the way" of the other drivers. He has just one win so far this season.

WALLACE GETS A LEAD: Darrell "Bubba" Wallace now knows that it is like to run up front in a Cup Series race.

Wallace passed Busch, the pole sitter, with 126 laps remaining to lead a Cup race for the first time in his young career. It didn't last long, though, as Busch passed Wallace a short time later before a brief yellow flag for rain.

UP NEXT: NASCAR moves on to another short track next weekend at Richmond Motor Speedway. Joey Logano won that race last spring.Owners of a Wisconsin-based Taco Bell Cantina are getting fired up after their plan to serve beer and wine recently got rejected.

After being denied a liquor license, the Madison Taco Bell franchise's owners filed a lawsuit on Friday, saying the mayor’s denial was “arbitrary, capricious, discriminatory and unreasonable in circumstances.”

Taco Bell’s cantina-style restaurants are designed for “urban areas” that feature local artwork, open kitchens, tapas-style appetizers -- and alcohol.

The new Madison location has been serving the community sans alcohol since it opened its doors in December. Madison’s Common Council approved its liquor license in December with a vote of 16-1, but it was vetoed by Mayor Paul Soglin. The Common Council could not secure enough votes to later overturn the veto.

“I see little public value in issuing a liquor license to Taco Bell and enormous costs for the residents of Madison and our city government,” Soglin, a Democrat, said. “In the meantime, the violence at downtown locations associated with liquor is only growing -- growing in terms of frequency, in terms of location, and in terms of severity.”

He added that Taco Bell’s sale of liquor could cause other fast food restaurants, such as Burger King or Starbucks, to do the same.

In its application for the license, the Taco Bell franchisee had agreed to only sell beer and wine, as opposed to other Cantina locations that serve hard liquor. It also agreed to stop serving alcohol by 10 p.m. Sundays through Thursdays and by 11 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, according to a licensing application for Bell Great Lakes LLC provided to Fox News.

The franchise also agreed to install additional security cameras, provide employee training, implement an ID scanner and increase lighting on the street, according to the lawsuit, filed in Dane County, Wisconsin and provided to Fox News.

The lawsuit points out that the Soglin and the Common Council approved a liquor license in February for Chen’s Dumpling House, a restaurant located across the street. Chen’s is open daily from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m., according to its website.

“The City’s approval of the Chen’s application proves that there is no evidence or rational basis for the finding that granting [the restaurant’s] License Application would undermine public safety or harm the City’s ability to provide services to Plaintiff’s business or other businesses in the State Street area,” the lawsuit read.

Greg Flynn, chairman and CEO of Flynn Restaurant Group which owns the restaurant, said his organization has an “outstanding reputation of owning and operating safe, orderly and compliant concepts nationwide, and we always keep the safety and wellbeing of our guests at the forefront of our business.”

“The bottom line is that while we have been beyond accommodating to all involved parties, we truly believe that the way this matter was handled is due solely to the Mayor’s unwarranted bias against our restaurant brand,” Flynn said in a statement to WKOW-TV.

Requests for comment from Soglin were referred to city attorney Michael May, who told Fox News in an emailed statement that the city is “confident the legal discretion granted to the City in issuing liquor licenses will ultimately support the decision in this case.”

You can read the full lawsuit below.Starbucks is planning to follow up on its CEO’s promise to implement “unconscious bias” training by closing more than 8,000 company-owned stores across the U.S. on May 29 to conduct “racial bias training,” per a Starbucks news release.

“I’ve spent the last few days in Philadelphia with my leadership team listening to the community, learning what we did wrong and the steps we need to take to fix it,” said Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson in the statement.

“While this is not limited to Starbucks, we’re committed to being a part of the solution. Closing our stores for racial bias training is just one step in a journey that requires dedication from every level of our company and partnerships in our local communities.”

OFFICERS IN STARBUCKS INCIDENT 'DID ABSOLUTELY NOTHING WRONG' SAYS PHILLY POLICE CHIEF

Company-owned retail stores, as well as corporate offices, will close for the afternoon of Tuesday, May 29 for employees to undergo training designed to “address implicit bias, promote conscious inclusion,” and deal with discrimination issues, the news release confirms.

The training measures will reportedly be designed by Bryan Stevenson of the Equal Justice Initiative, Sherrilyn Ifill of the NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund, Heather McGhee of Demos and Jonathan Greenblatt of the Anti-Defamation League, as well as former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder. Moving forward, this curriculum will become part of routine training for all new Starbucks hires, the company says.

Starbucks-licensed outlets, such as those found in colleges or supermarkets, or inside other retail outlets, are not included among the 8,000-plus company-owned stores confirmed to be closing in Starbucks’ announcement, and not required to close. A spokesperson for Fox News has confirmed that the curriculum will be available to those outlets, and licensed stores will be encouraged to participate in the training.

MCDONALD’S MANAGER APOLOGIZES FOR SLAPPING CUSTOMER, SAYS WOMAN THREW COFFEE AT HER FIRST

"We will learn from our mistakes and reaffirm our commitment to creating a safe and welcoming environment for every customer," added Starbucks executive chairman Howard Schultz in the company's announcement.

News of Starbucks' mass training efforts comes in response to an April 12 incident during which two African-American men were arrested while waiting for a friend inside a Philadelphia Starbucks on Spruce Street near South 18th Street at approximately 4:30 p.m. Employees had reportedly claimed the men were tresspassing, and police later led both away in handcuffs.

Footage of the arrests has since gone viral on Twitter, amassing over 10 million views and garnering strong reactions from both social media and Starbucks executives including Johnson, who called the incident "reprehensible" and said the arrests never should have happened, the Associated Press reports.

While the two arrested men have yet to be identified by name, the Associated Press confirmed that Johnson met in person with the pair on April 16 to apologize. Meanwhile, about two dozen protestors charged the coffee shop that same day, chanting slogans like, "A whole lot of racism, a whole lot of crap, Starbucks coffee is anti-black."

"We don't want this Starbucks to make any money today. That's our goal," Abdul-Aliy Muhammad, one of the protest's organizers and co-founder of the Black and Brown Workers Collective, told AP. The hashtag #BoycottStarbucks also reportedly began gaining traction on Twitter.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

A lawyer for the men did not immediately return the AP’s requests for comment.

As of press time, Starbucks had yet to share the news of the national store closing from their official Twitter, Instagram or Facebook accounts.As the saying goes, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. It's apparently not an adage that America's grocery stores have taken to heart, at least according to a new report from the Center for Biological Diversity and the Ugly Fruit and Veg Campaign.

They scored 10 U.S. supermarkets on their efforts to reduce food waste and conclude that "unfortunately, U.S. grocers focus on donating and recycling food waste, rather than preventing it — and they're not even tracking food waste throughout their entire operations." And they're certainly not reporting it, something the organizations see as key to accountability.

Of the 10, only Ahold Delhaize (the company behind Food Lion, Stop & Shop, Peapod, etc.) publicly reports it. How the various chains did on Accountability, Prevention, and Recovery & Recycling, out of a possible score of 60:

Walmart: B (32) Ahold Delhaize: C (26) Kroger: C (24) Albertsons: C (22) Target: D 17 Trader Joe's: D (16) Whole Foods: D (14) Costco: D (14) Publix: D (11) ALDI: F (7)

The report does identify some missed opportunities and offer recommendations, including:

ALDI has a "strong food-waste reduction program" in place in the U.K. but hasn't replicated those efforts in the U.S. yet.

Trader Joe's and Costco rely on bulk-purchasing business models but haven't extended those models to include whole crop purchases.

As evidence of the lack of understanding about the issue, the report notes that one company touted its use of "buy-one get-one free" specials as a way to reduce waste by unloading products near their expiration date. But "data shows that buy-one-get-one-free offers are correlated with food waste through over-purchasing."

The report recommends the companies commit to zero surplus food waste by 2025, which one — Kroger — has done.

See the report in full at Medium.

This article originally appeared on Newser: "US Grocery Stores Graded on Food Waste, and One Gets an 'F'"If you've ever dreamed of enjoying a fresh Domino's pizza next to the James Brown statue in Augusta, Ga., your wish has become reality.

On Monday, the Michigan-based chain announced that it will now be delivering to non-traditional street addresses, meaning customers can currently get pizzas delivered to pre-designated areas near beaches, parks, and “thousands of other unexpected sites” across America, per a press release.

The company has reportedly added 150,000 of these new addresses — or “Domino’s Hotspots” — to its online and mobile-ordering platforms.

MAN'S HILARIOUS PIZZA-DELIVERY INSTRUCTIONS GO VIRAL

Customers taking advantage of Domino’s new delivery options first need to place prepaid orders via the online platforms, then choose from a list of available nearby “Hotspots.” As their orders near, customers will be alerted to go meet the driver at the pre-determined location.

So, for instance, if a customer gets a hankering for some Stuffed Cheesy Bread during a visit to the beach, or craves a Hawaiian pizza while hanging out in the parking lot of a Willie Nelson concert, they need not worry about not having a street address to provide to the delivery driver.

SEE IT: MICHIGAN RESTAURANT ORDERING WORLD'S LARGEST DELIVERY PIZZA

"We know that delivery is all about convenience, and Domino's Hotspots are an innovation that is all about flexible delivery options for customers," said Russel Weiner, president of Domino’s USA, per the press release.

"Now customers spending time at some of our new Domino's Hotspots locations, like Tommy Lasorda Field of Dreams in Los Angeles or even next to the James Brown statue in Augusta, Georgia, can have a pizza conveniently delivered to them, thanks to our innovative Domino's Delivery Hotspots.”

Domino’s new “Hotspot” ordering options are currently available at Dominos.com or via the company’s mobile ordering app.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Despite the news, Domino’s new “Hotspot” options don’t mark the first time a delivery driver has delivered pizza to a non-"traditional” address. In May 2017, a man in Greater Manchester, England, successfully convinced a Domino’s delivery man to enter his home and bring pizza directly to his bedroom, where the customer was nursing a “sinister hangover.”There’s a whole heap of things to love about Dollywood, the Pigeon Forge, Tenn. amusement park owned by country music legend Dolly Parton (known as the Dreamer-in-Chief to park employees).It has more than 40 thrilling rides, 15 knee-slapping shows, a 35-acre water park and the best amusement park food in the world. Really!

For the fourth time in seven years, Amusement Today—the global trade magazine for amusement park news—has awarded the Smoky Mountain destination a Golden Ticket prize for the best food in the business.

Dolly herself has gushed about her love of food, and that passion shows right down to the sit-down restaurants and niche food carts tucked throughout the grounds. But what makes the theme park’s fare stand out above the rest?

A post shared by The Dollywood Company (@dollywood) on May 2, 2016 at 12:10pm PDT

Naturally, Dollywood excels at stick-to-your-ribs Southern comfort food, from the meat loaf and skillet cornbread at Granny Ogle’s Ham ‘n’ Beans to the saucy barbecue ribs at the Hickory Smoke BBQ restaurant to the creamy banana pudding at Front Porch Café (it’s Dolly’s own recipe, you know). And Grist Mill’s cinnamon bread is famous for a reason—if the sweet aroma doesn’t lure you in as it wafts through the park, just one look at the butter-soaked pull-apart bread will hook you in an instant.

A post shared by The Dollywood Company (@dollywood) on Mar 25, 2017 at 10:50am PDT

Dollywood’s even known for having typical theme park fare that stands out above the rest, like sugar-dusted funnel cakes, footlong corn dogs and fluffy cotton candy at the Midway Market.

While it deserves top marks for its food alone, Dollywood also took home Golden Ticket Awards for having the Best Shows, Best Christmas Event and for being the Friendliest Park overall—no wonder why it attracts more than 2.5 million visitors each year.

A post shared by The Dollywood Company (@dollywood) on Jan 23, 2017 at 2:17pm PST

Between the entertainment and the mouthwatering grub, there’s a whole lot to love about Dolly Parton’s theme park. You may want to sit a spell before hopping on the next thrill ride, but when the food’s as good as it is at Dollywood, it’s as much of an attraction as any roller coaster.

This article originally appeared on Taste of Home.A small business owner is thanking President Donald Trump for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 which she says has allowed her business to hire new employees and increase wages for its hourly workers.

Continue Reading Below

“It gives us an opportunity to reinvest our money into our businesses rather than giving it to the federal government to spend on our behalf,” Irina Vilarino, owner of Las Vegas Cuban Cuisine, said during an interview on FOX Business’ “Risk & Reward.”

Vilarino said her employees are reaping the benefits of the GOP tax reform bill, with wages having increased 20% for hourly employees.

“Really who’s benefiting at this moment are the employees,” she said. “They’ve seen a wage increase in the last six months, which hasn’t occurred in the last eight years.”

Vilarino was able to express her gratitude to Trump at a Florida business roundtable Monday.

Advertisement

“Government helps small businesses by letting us do our jobs and getting out of the way, by unleashing the American spirit,” she said.

The restaurant owner arrived in the United States at the age of four during the 1980 Mariel boatlift when then-President Fidel Castro allowed 125,000 Cubans to emigrate to the shores of Florida.

“Having come from a country that promised everything and only delivered misery, I knew that eight years of promoting appeasement, apologies and entitlement was taking us down a path of no return,” Vilarino said in Hialeah, Florida.

Vilarino also reacted to former President Barack Obama’s trip to Cuba in 2016 where he enjoyed a baseball game with President Raul Castro, the brother of Fidel.

“It was disheartening that the leader of the free world would sit with a murderous thug and high five him. It was really disgraceful for us,” she said.Rats may be the biggest rodents to plague New York City, but they may not be the germiest. Researchers recently made a disturbing discovery after studying mice in apartment buildings across the city in the past year: they're covered in disease-causing bacteria.

Tests conducted by a team from Columbia University on 416 mice collected in seven New York City-area locations in just over a year revealed house mice are "carriers of several gastrointestinal disease-causing agents," including C. diff, E. coli and Salmonella, among others, according to a study published in the American Society for Microbiology on Tuesday.

“We found a whole series of bacteria that are associated with human disease,” Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, a senior author of the study, told the New York Daily News. “And many of these bacteria had evidence of antibiotic resistance chain.”

Therefore, humans exposed to infected mice – through direct contact, droppings or urine – would have a hard time killing the germs, which means any potential illnesses contracted from the rodents could turn deadly.

“We found a whole series of bacteria that are associated with human disease." - Dr. W. Ian Lipkin

At least 2 million people are impacted by these superbugs every year and 23,000 of those are killed as a result, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) says. C. diff, which causes "life-threatening diarrhea," is listed as one of the biggest drug-resistant threats in the U.S., according to a 2013 CDC study.

A second paper published by the team of researchers focused solely on fecal matter from mice collected in Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx. The study revealed 36 separate viruses – 12 specifically targeting the liver – were present in mouse poop, though none are known to harm humans.

"Higher mouse weight was associated with an increase in the number of viruses detected per mouse, after adjusting for site, sex, and length," the study states. "We found neither genetic footprints to known human viral pathogens nor antibodies to lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus."

In order to prevent exposure, Lipkin recommends being extra careful when preparing or eating food. Countertops and places where food is stored should be thoroughly cleaned.

“If you’ve got mice in your kitchen, and they’re soiling your food, that’s a way in which you can become infected,” Lipkin told the New York newspaper. "When you walk by restaurants that list a B or a C [grade] you probably want to give it a pass.”The parents of a 23-month-old boy in the U.K. have applied to take their case back to the supreme court after a judge denied their request for permission to transfer their son to a hospital in Rome. Tom Evans and his partner, Kate James, argue that their son Alfie has shown improvements in his health, and would benefit from treatment offered abroad.

But on Monday, Britain’s Court of Appeal ruled against the parents, upholding a lower court’s conclusion that flying the child to a hospital in Rome would be wrong and pointless. Alfie, of Liverpool, has been on life support at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital since Dec. 2016. Doctors have been unable to identify the degenerative neurological condition he is suffering from, with his health status described as being in a “semi-vegetative state.” Lower courts have previously ordered that his life support be withdrawn.

MAN LEFT FACELESS FOR 2 MONTHS UNDERGOES SECOND TRANSPLANT AFTER FIRST DETERIORATES

Following the latest ruling, protesters gathered outside the facility to chant “Save Alfie Evans,” prompting the couple to respond on their Facebook support page, “Aflies Army Official.”

“Can I ask that after tonight I would really appreciate if everyone has a break from the protesting please,” Tom Evans wrote. “Me and Kate are so so so grateful for all your time you have put into it and support we can not thank you enough. I will update you on where we go from here and if we get permission then that would be a good reason to demonstrate peacefully.”

A representative from the supreme court said Tuesday that the application would be referred to the president of the supreme court and two other members, The Guardian reported.next

prev

After laying in a hospital for two months without a face, Jerome Hamon is getting used to his new look. The 43-year-old, who suffers from a genetic mutation which causes disfiguring tumors and complications, underwent his second face transplant nearly four months ago at a hospital in Paris.

“While he was waiting he never complained, he was even in a good mood,” Bernard Cholley, an anesthetist at Georges-Pompidou European Hospital, where Hamon remains hospitalized, told the Telegraph.

ORGANS FROM OVERDOSE VICTIMS JMAY SAVE THOUSANDS ON TRANSPLANT WAITING LIST

He first underwent a face transplant to treat the tumors caused by neurofibromatosis type 1 in 2010, but in 2016 his body started rejecting it and his face deteriorated, according to the Telegraph. Doctors were forced to remove the face in November 2017, leaving him without a face for two months. While he waited for news of a compatible donor, he was unable to hear, speak or see, BBC News reported.

In January, news of a 22-year-old donor reached the hospital, setting up the possibility of a second transplant for Hamon. Dr. Laurent Lantieri, who performed the first transplant surgery, also conducted the second. Hamon was given three months of blood treatment prior to the surgery to help reduce any risk of rejection, the Telegraph reported.

“The first transplant I accepted immediately,” Hamon told the news outlet. “I thought ‘this is my new face’ and this time, it’s the same. If I hadn’t accepted this new face it would have been terrible. It’s a question of identity… But here we are, it’s good, it’s me.”Arizona has recorded its first death involving an overdose of Carfentanil, a synthetic opioid that’s 5,000 times more potent than heroin, and 100 times more powerful than fentanyl. The DEA announced the death on Monday, and said it occurred in 2017 and involved a 21-year-old male who was found dead in a car outside a Phoenix restaurant.

While the report did not divulge any further information about the man’s identity, it did say the Maricopa County Medical Examiner’s report confirmed the presence of carfentail, Fox 10 Phoenix reported. The DEA said the source of the drug remains unknown.

ORGANS FROM OVERDOSE VICTIMS MAY SAVE THOUSANDS ON TRANSPLANT WAITING LIST

“Carfentanil is an extremely an extremely dangerous drug and its presence in Arizona should be incredibly alarming for all of us, including the DEA and our law enforcement partners who continue to combat the opioid epidemic in this state,” Special Ageny Doug Coleman said, in a released statement.

THE OPIOID EPIDEMIC'S FORGOTTEN VICTIMS: PETS

Carfentanil is typically used to tranquilize elephants, and is deadly to humans at just 0.02 milligrams. A DEA official previously told Fox News that the drug is so powerful, that it poses a danger simply by coming into contact with a person’s skin.An Arizona woman who donated a kidney to a complete stranger said it was the most gratifying thing she has ever done, even though she’s never met the recipient. Beth Ramirez, who felt a calling to help someone in need after her own daughter was diagnosed with an illness two years ago, went under the knife in February.

While she couldn’t help her child through organ donation, she had read an article on living donors and felt compelled to do something.

“I felt a tap on my shoulder that said, ‘This is what I’ve been preparing you for,’” Ramirez told Fox 10 Phoenix. “I had people say to me, ‘Why would you do this? Why would you do this? What if your daughter needs a kidney?’ or ‘What if your loved ones needs a kidney?’”

ORGANS FROM OVERDOSE VICTIMS MAY SAVE THOUSANDS ON TRANSPLANT WAITING LIST

But Ramirez said after working with the Banner University Medical Center, the only thought in her mind was, “why would you not?”

While her recipient has remained anonymous, Ramirez said there is a chance they may meet for the first time in the coming weeks. Ramirez returned to work after a three-week recovery and also said she would do it again “in a heartbeat” if she could.

“The only thing that you need is a willing heart and a little bit of time,” she told Fox 10 Phoenix.Lena Dunham's nearly 2,000-word Vogue essay on what she claims some have dubbed her "gerbil teeth" is getting swift criticism from fans online who say it sends a "bad message."

Dunham opened up her essay, titled "Lena Dunham Got the Message: The Internet Does Not Like Her Teeth," by comparing her mother's "jankity smile" in the 1970s to her own.

"When she was roughly my age and her buckteeth overshadowed the rest of her child-size ones," Dunham explained in the article, referring to vintage photos of her mother.

Ever since she was 6 years old, Dunham says she's had issues with her teeth. They were disproportionate, crooked – you name it.

"When I first entered the public eye, I did so with my own teeth, which I soon realized was not something typically embarked upon by the freshly famous," Dunham continued. "This was also before I had learned another cardinal rule of celebrity: Thou shalt not search thyself on Twitter."

The "Girls" creator then listed several insults she read over the years about her smile on social media. Some compared her chompers to "British wooden fence post teeth," calling them "alarmingly large."

"The thing that bothers me most about Lena Dunham is the fact that she’s rich & her teeth are still brown," Dunham recalled reading.

"Is Lena Dunham against whitening her teeth?" a Twitter user once asked.

The question prompted Dunham to do a deep dive into whether she's against whitening her teeth.

"As with so many women, my relationship to the trappings of beauty changes every day. And from the first time I read a tooth criticism online, I developed the habits of the suddenly self-conscious, pursing my lips at inopportune times like I’d just sucked down half a lemon," Dunham wrote.

She then decided to do some research, reaching out to Manhattan dentist Mojgan Fajiram, D.D.S., Michael Apa, D.D.S. and a variety of other "tooth perfecting services." She admitted she even made an appoitment once, but chickened out after a friend told her the procedure would likely be painful.

In the end, Dunham decided to not make a decision "solely on unsolicited outside input." Instead, she will follow her own instincts.

"When I first entered the public eye, I did so with my own teeth, which I soon realized was not something typically embarked upon by the freshly famous." - Lena Dunham

"I will continue on: beaver-toothed, yellowed, enraging the internet one post at a time with a smile only a mother could love," Dunham ended the essay.

While some said Dunham's post was inspiring and spread a message of body positivity, others called the piece "vain" and scolded the star for even considering expensive procedures to simply keep up appearances.

"If Lena Dunham wants to write a whole article about her teeth, whatever, vain.... Please talk about how orthodontia is very expensive (as is dental insurance)," one Twitter user wrote. "For Lena Dunham to write an article in Vogue telling us to embrace her teeth (🙄whatever) sends a bad message. We need to take care of our teeth for our individual health! It’s important for your mouth, but also your heart and kidneys."

"When I tell my son I am reading an article about someone worried about whitening their teeth because of what people thought of her on the internet, he replied 'She needs to grow up.' Bravo on leaving well enough alone," another added.

"@lenadunham you misinterpreted the message ... @voguemagazine why do you give this person a platform?!?" one user asked.

But fans were quick to defend Dunham and commend the star for her decision.

"All my love to @lenadunham teeth," one person tweeted.

"@lenadunham I actually think that teeth give great character. Your teeth are unique & genuinely beautiful," another wrote.WARNING: VIDEO CONTAINS SWEARING.

BuzzFeed teamed up with Oscar-winning actor Jordan Peele Tuesday to film a public service announcement on how fake news operates while mocking President Trump and Ben Carson.

The 72-second segment begins with what appears to be a message from Barack Obama before it reveals halfway through that the video was digitally manipulated to put Peele’s words into the mouth of the former president.

Peele has garnered fame for his impersonation of Obama on the Comedy Central show “Key & Peele.”

“We’re entering an era in which our enemies can make it look like anyone is saying anything at any point in time, even if they would never say those things,” said the 39-year-old actor said as the 56-year-old ex-commander-in-chief.

Peele goes on to claim “Ben Carson is in the sunken place," referencing his film

Get Out," and also says, “Simply, President Trump is total and complete dips---."

Peele as Obama added, “It may sound basic, but how we move forward in the Age of Information is gonna be the difference between whether we survive or whether become some kind of f----- up dystopia.”

He also shared “This is a dangerous time. Moving forward, we need to be more vigilant with what we trust from the internet,” before concluding “stay woke b----es.”

BuzzFeed CEO Jonah Peretti, who is also Peele's brother-in-law, revealed the idea for the video first originated after he a Peele discussed how it was important to warn the public about the “rapidly evolving threat posed by digital information” spread online.

“I always enjoy talking with Jordan, and he’s actually very interested in news and the news business and understanding how information spreads,” explained Peretti. “We were talking about deepfake [artificial intelligence] that can create things like that guy who put his wife’s face on Anne Hathaway’s body for a late-night interview.”

Peretti, whose sister is Peele's wife, comedian Chelsea Peretti, insisted he felt the video was an ideal fit for BuzzFeed, which has previously reported on fake news.

“We’ve covered counterfeit news websites that say the pope endorsed Trump that look kinda like real news, but because it’s text people have started to become more wary,” he explained. “And now we’re starting to see tech that allows people to put words into the mouths of public figures that look like they must be real because it’s video and video doesn’t lie!”

BuzzFeed video producer Jared Sosa digitally altered footage of Obama to a script written and performed by Peele using Adobe After Effects and FakeApp, a program that previously stirred headlines in January when it was used to transplant Nicolas Cage’s face into several movies he didn’t appear.

Peretti hopes the video will show audiences how trusted reporters are crucial for accurate information now more than ever, especially when it comes to the internet.

“I think by and large the internet has been amazingly beneficial to the world and to democracy,” he said. “And simultaneously it’s always had a dark side that objectionable, with people who are either trolls or hackers or scammers or politically motivated.”Kylie Jenner is facing some serious criticism from fans on social media for "leaving" her infant at home to "party" at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival.

Jenner, 20, gave birth to her daughter, Stormi, on Feb. 1. She explained in an Instagram post a week later that she kept her pregnancy private in order to prepare for the "role of a lifetime" in a stress-free environment with beau Travis Scott.

“Pregnancy has been the most beautiful, empowering, and life changing experience I’ve had in my entire life and I’m actually going to miss it. I appreciate my friends and especially my family for helping me make this special moment as private as we could," wrote Jenner, attaching an 11-minute video diary.

"All she wants to do is hold her baby.” - Source to PEOPLE in February

The self-proclaimed "cool mom" has posted plenty of pictures and videos of her and Stormi since announcing the baby's arrival in early February.

KYLIE JENNER AND TRAVIS SCOTT ARE 'GREAT' PARENTS, KRIS JENNER SAYS

“All she talks about is her baby girl,” a source told PEOPLE on Feb. 12. “She is surrounded by her and Travis’ family. Everyone is pitching in and helping Kylie so she can do things like shower. But all she wants to do is hold her baby.”

About two months after the birth of her little girl, Jenner jetted off to Indio, California, to attend Coachella. The "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" star attended two Coachella parties and showed some skin as well as some wild blue and bright pink locks over the weekend.

👾 A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Apr 14, 2018 at 2:23pm PDT

She snapped several Instagram pictures of her wild hairdos, including one of herself sporting a neon pink wig while sipping out of what appears to be a red solo cup. The photo garnered nearly 4 million likes since it was posted Sunday.

But some weren't too pleased with Jenner for "ditching" her child for a music festival.

"Where’s the baby? Great parents so far. This baby been with babysitters more than her parents," one Instagram user claimed.

"Shouldn’t she be taking care of her new baby?" another asked.

"Your place should be with your newborn!" one user added.

"Your place should be with your newborn!" - Instagram user

"She doesnt breastfeed I read in an article! Which doesnt surprise me at all because to be a breastfeeding mother you would have to be with your baby all day everyday," another wrote.

KYLIE JENNER, RIHANNA AND MORE STARS SHOW SKIN AT COACHELLA

The comments sparked a debate online about motherhood, with some commending Jenner for taking time for herself.

A post shared by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Apr 14, 2018 at 12:59pm PDT

"Just because they don't constantly share pictures of them all together doesn't mean that their daughter isn't important to them. I think people judge her too quickly based on what she does/doesn't post," one fan defended the star.

"Yes girl! Enjoy your mommy time," another added.

"Leave her be. So a young mum gets this much criticism for going to a festival just because she's had a newborn? It's not like she left the kid inside a car to starve!" an Instagram user commented.

Somehow, her beau and fellow co-parent, rapper Travis Scott, seemed to be left out of the narrative altogether, despite his attendance at Coachella.ABC News continued to provide a safe space for anyone looking to rail against President Trump, with adult film star Stormy Daniels and her attorney Michael Avenatti appearing on “The View” Tuesday morning.

ABC has emerged as the most comfortable broadcast network for critics of Trump to air their grievances, evidenced by former FBI Director James Comey’s recent interview with "Good Morning America" host George Stephanopoulos. Tuesday was no different and “The View” co-host Whoopi Goldberg opened the “exclusive” interview by asking Daniels why she is appearing on the show despite being sued by Trump for speaking out.

“I’m done being bullied,” the adult film star responded while wearing a key around her neck, invoking questions as to whether or not Daniels feels she is literally the key to all controversy surrounding the president.

Avenatti claimed that Daniels' appearance at Monday’s Michael Cohen court hearing was not a publicity stunt, but conservative co-host Meghan McCain pointed out that it sure felt like it was.

“It seemed like you were trying to get attention,” McCain said. “It has been beneficial for your career.”

Daniels admitted that her newfound fame has resulted in additional bookings at strip clubs. “I’m making more money,” she said.

Co-host Joy Behar told Daniels not to apologize for making a living before the panel mocked a video of Trump denying the alleged affair.

“I work in the adult business and I’m a better actress than he is,” Daniels said of Trump as the panel chuckled.

Avenatti had teased the Daniels appearance, taking to Twitter to promise the he would release the composite sketch of the man she claims threatened her in 2011 to keep quiet about her alleged affair with Trump. Daniels was asked to remind viewers about the alleged threat that she first detailed in a recent sit down with Anderson Cooper on CBS’ “60 Minutes.”

Daniels said the face of a mysterious man who told her to leave Trump alone was burned into her memory. She claims to have worked with a sketch artist and the illustration was eventually revealed on the show. During the show, Daniels and Avenatti offered a $100,000 reward for help identifying the man.

Daniels was portrayed as a family woman simply seeking the truth, but Behar pressed her about why any woman would have sex with someone they’re not attracted to, allowing the adult film star an opportunity to justify her alleged decision to sleep with the married Trump.

“It was not prostitution,” Daniels said. “What I do for a living should not matter.”

At one point Daniels even said that she didn’t select the name of her strip club tour, “Make America Horny Again.”

The Disney-owned ABC News aired a one-hour primetime special on Sunday night featuring Comey promoting his new anti-Trump book, “A Higher Loyalty,” during an interview with Stephanopoulos. The network chose not to air several key moments, such as when Comey ripped former President Barack Obama. Comey criticized Obama for comments made during the bureau’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server, suggesting the former president “jeopardized” the Justice Department’s “credibility.”

However, viewers would need to access the entire five-hour interview via its transcript online to know about Comey’s comments on Obama. The reliably liberal network had to make extensive edits to the marathon interview and ultimately decided that Comey’s personal thoughts on Trump’s appearance were more relevant than any shots he took at Obama. The fired FBI boss mocked Trump’s skin, tie length, hair and even white circles around his eyes during his sit down with Stephanopoulos.

ABC has seemingly taken a turn to the left during the Trump administration, as late-night star Jimmy Kimmel pivots toward activism and Behar continues to make outlandish claims such as Trump being more hostile than North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un or Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Comey and Stephanopoulos continued their chat Tuesday on ABC News’ “Good Morning America,” and the former FBI Director is scheduled to follow Daniels and Avenatt with his own appearance on “The View” Wednesday morning.In recent days, The New Yorker has made some downright scurrilous accusations about Chick-fil-A, the unofficial chicken of our Lord.

The magazine warned that the beloved fast food restaurant was waging a “guerrilla insurgency” upon Gotham’s citizenry – plotting to evangelize the city by luring the masses with plump, juicy chicken breasts tucked between hot, buttered buns.

Click here to join Todd’s Twitter page!

“The brand’s arrival here feels like an infiltration, in no small part because of its pervasive Christian traditionalism,” lamented Dan Piepenbring in an essay titled “Chick-fil-A’s Creepy Infiltration of New York City.”

Piepenbring seemed terribly disturbed by the news that a fourth outpost of the family-owned chain had recently opened – as if the Chick-fil-A Cows were about to stampede through the East Village.

“Its headquarters, in Atlanta, are adorned with Bible verses and a statue of Jesus washing a disciple’s feet,” he wrote. “Its stores close on Sundays.”

And like any progressive journalist, he offered up the obligatory Chick-fil-A is “anti-gay” smear. Untrue, of course, but whatever.

“The restaurant’s corporate purpose still begins with the words ‘to glorify God,’ and that proselytism thrums below the surface of the Fulton Street restaurant, which has the ersatz homespun ambiance of a megachurch,” he wrote.

And he was especially wary of the famed Chick-fil-A Cows.

“If the restaurant is a megachurch, the Cows are its ultimate evangelists,” Piepenbring declared.

Well, praise the Lord and drink some sweet tea!

“Its politics, its décor, and its commercial-evangelical messaging are infected with this suburban piety,” he wrote.

Well, America – the time has come for you to know the truth. The New Yorker caught us red-handed. The jig is up.

The truth is months ago a covert team of specially trained Southern Christians crossed the Mason-Dixon Line along with a herd of grammatically-challenged bovines.

Our mission was to convert the Yankee heathens with gracious Southern hospitality and delicious chicken sandwiches.

And our plan would’ve worked had it not been for those meddling members of the Mainstream Media.

After about a week of eating fried chicken and drinking sweet tea, New Yorkers had become so much more pleasant and docile. Brooklynites had even started waving at tourists with all five fingers instead of one.

Now, that is the power of the Gospel Bird.

So let not your heart be troubled, America – because glory, glory hallelujah – the War of Poultry Aggression rages on.A group of everyday Minnesota heroes are now being praised as the heroes of a local school's prom.

On April 14, an unexpected and ferocious winter storm left students at Forest Lake Area High School without a venue to take photos for the highly anticipated spring dance. But just hours before prom was scheduled to begin, the Forest Lake Fire Department came to the rescue.

“PROM FAMILIES. Forest Lake Fire station will be opening their doors at 3 p.m. today for prom-goers to gather and take photos. Doors will be open from 3-6 today,” the department wrote on Facebook. “Be safe and make the most of this memorable day.”

BURGER KING TRAINED GUIDE DOG TO SNIFF OUT WHOPPERS

The department's thoughtful gesture is being credited to Alyssa Thomas, the quick-thinking wife of firefighter Sean Thomas.

“She thought it would be pretty cool if we opened up the venue to take photos,” Fire Chief Alan Newman told TwinCities.com. “My initial thought was: Who’s going to want to take a prom picture next to a fire truck? I was wrong.”

MAN CLAIMS HE LOST 20 POUNDS ON CHIPOTLE DIET

“I called a couple of guys, and we quick tidied up the station," Newman recalls. "At 3 o’clock, I came and looked out the window that looks out at the parking lot, and there were 50 cars out there, and I went ‘Uh-oh,””

“I got back on the phone and ended up calling some more guys and said, “Hey, can you get up here?””

The teens, embracing the odd opportunity, happily posed in their glitzy gowns and tuxedos while wearing fire hats, holding fire extinguishers, and hanging off fire trucks in photos that they they'll fondly be looking back at for years to come.

“It was cool to be part of their special day — and parents were happy. They really looked like they had a lot of fun as well,” he added.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

For better or worse, the prom was ultimately canceled because weather conditions became so severe. Forest Lake High School Principal Jim Caldwell told KSTP that school leaders met April 16, and plans are already in motion to reschedule the big dance.

According to AccuWeather, the day of the thundersnow- and sleet-ridden #BlizzardProm was the second-snowiest April day on record for Minneapolis, from which Forest Lake is about 30 minutes away.

The Forest Lake High School students weren’t alone, either, as the storm forced the Minnesota Twins to postpone the three-day series against the Chicago White Sox that weekend.Tesla will temporarily stop production of the Model 3, but Tom Lee, a managing partner and the head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors, says ignore market jitters and focus on the long-term.

Continue Reading Below

“I think in 10 years Tesla has the opportunity to become … a transformational company,” Lee told FOX Business’ Stuart Varney on “Varney & Co.” on Tuesday.

It’s the second time since February that production has been halted to make improvements on the electric automaker’s first mass-market car and another potential setback in Musk’s promise to turn a profit in the second half of 2018.

Even so, Lee is still bullish.

“We know the market’s pretty nervous. We can see it in the credit markets – you know that’s really where Tesla bonds began to weaken and I think there are some sort of doubts about their execution,” he said. “But look, they’ve got a really loyal customer base [and] they’ve got a very charismatic CEO – so in some ways I actually think Tesla is going to come out of this fine.”

Advertisement

Shares of Tesla were trading at $289 in early afternoon trade.Billionaire Elon Musk has invested more than $100 million of his own money in a new round of funding for his tunnel startup, the Boring Company, according to a new Securities and Exchange Commission filing.

Continue Reading Below

The startup, which launched in 2017 after Musk became frustrated with traffic congestion in Los Angeles, is developing underground tunnels to facilitate his Hyperloop concept to allow for faster travel between destinations.

The company has also made headlines this year for its flamethrowers, a “complimentary Boring fire extinguisher,” that sold out within five days, grossing more than $10 million for the startup.

According to Recode, which first reported the funding news, the Boring Company has raised around $113 million in a recent funding round, with Musk himself providing more than 90% of the funds, with the rest of the funding coming from “early employees.” There were no outside investors, the report said.

The filing did not name Musk either, but rather Jared Birchall as a director and executive. Birchall is the president and CEO of another Musk co-founded startup called Neuralink. What’s more, the report did not disclose what the new funds would be used for.

Musk has said the first segment of the Boring Company’s first tunnel from Los Angeles International Airport to Culver City, Santa Monica, Westwood and Sherman Oaks has been completed. Though, the startup does face tough competition from Richard Branson’s Virgin Hyperloop One, which is also developing high-speed transportation technology that sends pods hurtling through pressurized tubes at around 600 miles per hour.Steve Wynn, the embattled former CEO of Wynn resorts, resolved a longstanding fight with his ex-wife, Elaine, over claims that he violated the terms of their shareholders’ agreement.

Continue Reading Below

Elaine Wynn also agreed to release the company and its general counsel, Kim Sinatra, from breach of contract allegations, Wynn Resorts said. In return, Sinatra and Wynn Resorts dropped their claims against her.

Neither Wynn Resorts nor Sinatra paid any money to Elaine Wynn, though Steve Wynn is said to have paid her an undisclosed amount, according to The Wall Street Journal.

The battle, which had been ongoing for six years, involved claims that Elaine Wynn had been wrongfully removed from the company’s board of directors. There was also an agreement between the pair and an ex-business partner that prevented any of the parties from selling their shares without permission from the others, which was dissolved last month.

Late last month, the casino mogul sold his remaining shares in Wynn Resorts, netting him more than $2.1 billion. He owned a 12% stake in the company, which he founded. The businessman faces allegations of sexual misconduct and resigned as chairman and CEO of the company in early February. He has denied any wrongdoing.

Steve and Elaine Wynn, who divorced in 2010, came to an agreement in court that allows both to unwind their collective 21% stake, worth $4 billion.

Advertisement

Elaine Wynn is now the company’s largest shareholder, owning a stake worth more than 9%.Donald Trump’s first mansion, which he purchased when he was just 35 years old, has been put back on the market.

Continue Reading Below

According to TopTenRealEstateDeals.com, the home, a 19,773-square-foot Georgian colonial main house and guest house sits on 5.8 waterfront acres in Greenwich, Connecticut. There is plenty of room for a large family – or lots of guests – with eight bedrooms and 13 baths.

Trump purchased the home with his first wife, Ivana, for $4 million, who added gold leaf décor to the residence. Ivana kept the house after her divorce from Trump in 1991, but later sold the home.

The current owners, who purchased the home from Ivana, have toned down the house’s glitz, but expanded the house’s footprint by 4,000 feet and added a tennis court, indoor lap pool and sauna.

The house was originally listed in 2010 for $50 million and was reduced to $45 million in 2016. It has been relisted at $45 million.As e-commerce giant Amazon looks to wade deeper into the health care sector, it is reportedly struggling with its plans to sell pharmaceuticals.

Continue Reading Below

Amazon, which had designs to sell and distribute drugs via its Amazon Business platform, is putting those plans on hold after encountering road blocks, according to a report from CNBC, which cites people familiar with the matter.

The company has had trouble striking deals with large hospitals and distribution networks, which are hesitant to change the current organizational structure of the buying and selling processes, CNBC reported. As the sector undergoes a shift toward more consumer-centric models, the e-commerce giant – revered for its customer service and speedy delivery – is viewed by experts as a potential game changer given its ability to leverage its massive network to streamline the entire drug distribution process. Amazon could entirely eliminate the role of pharmacy benefit managers because its buying power would be so significant, which would lower drug prices for consumers.

CNBC said Amazon will instead focus its efforts on selling “less sensitive medical supplies” to hospitals and clinics as it builds up infrastructure to handle temperature-sensitive drugs.

Amazon declined to comment on the report when contacted by FOX Business.

Amazon Business already distributes a range of health care products, which includes medical supplies, to customers. The company said it serves health care customers of all sizes, ranging from large integrated delivery networks to community hospitals.

Advertisement

However, as CNBC noted, the tech behemoth is not yet selling high-risk devices, or those identified by the FDA as items that support life, are implanted or present unreasonable risk of illness or injury. Those devices include things like pacemakers and breast implants.

Earlier this year, Amazon announced it was teaming up with JPMorgan Chase and Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway on a health care initiative for the three company’s respective employees. The aim of the venture is to reduce costs, while increasing transparency for consumers.Los Angeles Clippers owner and former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer said on Monday that the federal government lacks courage when it comes to balancing the budget and lowering the deficit.

Continue Reading Below

"Even if people know the numbers, there's no courage,” he told FOX Business’ Neil Cavuto. “Nobody wants to sacrifice anything in the short term so that we don't leave these huge debt and deficits to our children. That drives me crazy.”

The annual U.S. budget deficit is expected to surpass $1 trillion by 2020 after President Donald Trump’s tax cuts and the recently passed spending bill, according to the Congressional Budget Office. It projects the deficit to top $1.5 trillion by 2028.

Ballmer said the long-term fixed cost is forcing the government to continue spending on entitlement programs that are poorly managed.

“Unless we get a handle on those big costs, there is no way in heck those deficits will go away,” he said.Hundreds of people have been airlifted out of dangerous floodwaters on the Hawaiian island of Kauai, but authorities said Tuesday that others are still stranded at evacuation centers.

The U.S. Army, National Guard, and the county airlifted more than 220 people Monday and are going back for more evacuations, local emergency management officials said. Thirteen people were still stuck at a shelter in Kilauea, a small town on the northeastern shore, said Coralie Matayoshi, CEO of the American Red Cross of Hawaii.

"We'll be starting to do damage assessment in Kauai for the first time today, because the weather was bad and the roads were blocked. We couldn't do it before," Matayoshi said.

Officials and crews are working to clear landslides and repair fallen utility poles, while state health officials have advised residents in some areas not to drink or cook with tap water as a precautionary measure due to a damaged main line.

Heavy rains caused flooding and mudslides Saturday, forcing residents and tourists into evacuation centers. Roads were closed, including on the island's North Shore.

The National Weather Service recorded 28.1 inches (71 centimeters) of rainfall in the small North Shore town of Hanalei between 2 a.m. Saturday and 2 a.m. Sunday. The record for a 24-hour period in Hanalei was set in 2012 at 28.54 inches (73 centimeters).

Hawaii's Department of Land and Natural Resources said about 25 people elected to be airlifted out of a state park on Kauai on Monday.

Hanalei Elementary School, the only school closed on Kauai, will keep its doors shut Wednesday, but anticipates reopening on Thursday.

On Tuesday, Hawaii Governor David Ige directed the Department of Taxation to extend tax filing deadlines for residents affected by the flooding; this includes an extension to pay state taxes that would otherwise be due on Friday.

Taxpayers can also claim casualty loss deductions, or deduct their losses on their 2018 income tax returns.

There have been no reports of major injuries. At least two vacant houses on the North Shore were completely washed off their foundations, county spokeswoman Sarah Blane said Monday.

"It's definitely the worst storm in recent memory," Blane said.

Some residents said the storm was worse than Hurricane Iniki in 1992.A suspect in the fatal shooting of one casino executive and the wounding of another at a picnic held for a group of employees of a Las Vegas casino-resort had been a card dealer at the luxury property for 15 years, authorities said Tuesday.

Anthony Wrobel remained at large after being accused of walking up to a table at a Las Vegas park Sunday evening and shooting the two executives of The Venetian at close range.

The casino-resort identified the executives as vice president of casino operations Mia Banks and Hector Rodriguez, executive director of table games.

Banks, 54, died at a hospital after what authorities are considering a planned and targeted attack, police Capt. Robert Plummer said. The coroner's office said she was shot in the chest and head.

Rodriguez, who police said was critically injured, is in stable condition at a hospital.

Plummer said Wrobel asked fellow employees where the casino executives were seated at the park and was directed to a gazebo area. Once there and "without warning or provocation," Wrobel pulled out a handgun, shot one victim at point-blank range then turned and shot the other victim, Plummer said.

"At this point, what we believe is he is a disgruntled employee," Plummer said. "It's a prime case of workplace violence where someone was not happy with his conditions and resulted in violence to deal with that issue that he was personally having."

Las Vegas Sands Corp., which operates The Venetian, said Banks had worked there since it opened in 1999 and along with Rodriguez was considered a founding team member. The company is offering a $50,000 reward for information that leads to the arrest of Wrobel.

"Our hearts are with both families, and everyone who has been affected by this senseless act of violence," the company said in a statement.

The shooting happened at a park near McCarran International Airport. Plummer said Wrobel's car was found at an airport parking garage.

Plummer said police do not believe Wrobel, 42, got on a flight at the airport, but they have not ruled out the possibility.

FBI supervisory special agent Joe Perez said investigators are considering obtaining a federal arrest warrant in the event that he fled Nevada.next

prev

North Korean leader Kim Jong Un appears to be trying out a new tactic to boost the image of his authoritarian regime — he's putting the spotlight on the women in his life.

Over the past few months, Kim has increasingly shared the stage with his younger sister, who became an instant celebrity as his envoy to the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics, and his wife, a former singer in her late 20s.

For sure, there is only one star of the show in North Korea, and that is Kim himself.

But the greater public role for Kim Yo Jong, his sister, and Ri Sol Ju, his wife, comes as Kim is embarking on a "charm offensive" — a series of summits and diplomatic moves that have significantly raised his international profile.next

prev

Colleagues and relatives have buried a magazine journalist killed over the weekend in El Salvador.

Karla Lisseth Turcios worked for El Economista, part of La Prensa Grafica media group in the gang-plagued Central American nation.

Journalists carried signs at the funeral Tuesday reading "Justice for Karla."

Her husband told police that he and their son left her resting at home around 12:30 p.m. Saturday. When they returned, Turcios had disappeared and did not answer her cellphone or respond to messages.

The 33-year-old journalist's body was found hours later on a highway northeast of the Salvadoran capital, San Salvador.

Police say she had bags around her head and was strangled. Officials say there were no signs at the home to indicate she had been violently abducted.Personal items belonging to former Brazilian President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva including his passport and clothes have been stolen in the city where he is jailed.

Da Silva's Workers' Party said Tuesday that the items were taken from a car parked outside a hotel where the party has set up an office in Curitiba. The southern Brazilian city is where the former president began serving his corruption conviction April 7.

Parana state police did not respond requests for comment.

Also on Tuesday, lawmakers on the Brazilian Senate human rights committee visited da Silva for two hours. Previously, he had been allowed to see only his lawyer and members of his family.next

prev

Residents of the Syrian town of Douma were packed into underground shelters amid bombardment when the gas began to spread. Suddenly, panic ensued.

As shouts of "chlorine, chlorine!" rang out, some ran into the night and fainted in the street. Others climbed to rooftops, hoping they'd be safer rising above the gas. Dozens didn't make it out at all, some stumbling on stairwells, out of breath, where they were later found dead.

The bodies were still there the next morning, strewn around the buildings, including toddlers and young children.

Much about the April 7 suspected chemical weapons attack in Douma, just east of Damascus, remains unknown, including the exact death toll, because of the lack of an independent investigation. Experts from the international chemical weapons watchdog entered the town on Tuesday, 10 days after the attack.

The Associated Press spoke to rescuers, medics and numerous residents of Douma for their accounts of what took place. Some were reached in rebel-held areas in northern Syria where they were evacuated after the attack, while others were still in Douma.

They spoke of at least two buildings with people sheltering in the basements that were overwhelmed with gas so strong that it was hard to breathe hundreds of meters (yards) away.

More than 40 people were killed, many of them children, according to medics and opposition activists in the town. The World Health Organization said an estimated 500 patients exhibited symptoms consistent with exposure to toxic chemicals, including respiratory failure.

The U.N.-mandated Independent International Commission on Syria has documented more than 30 chemical attacks in Syria between 2013 and the end of 2017 — at least 25 of them carried out by the Syrian military, the commission says. For the rest, it had insufficient evidence to determine the perpetrator. Most involved chlorine gas, usually causing only a few injuries.

But in this case, it appeared the gas hit dozens of people crammed into confined spaces, huddling away from the bombs outside. The U.S. and France say they have evidence the Syrian government carried out the April 7 strike, while Syria and its ally, Russia, have denied any gas attack even took place.

An AP team visited the site on a Syrian government-organized tour Monday, including a two-room underground shelter where one resident said 47 people were killed, including his pregnant wife and two young daughters.

A strange smell lingered, nine days after the attack. The floors of the shelter were covered with carpets and pillows were lined up against a wall. There were no signs of blood stains.

___

A STRANGE SMELL, THEN PEOPLE RUNNING AND SCREAMING

There had been bombings going on all day, and in the evening, a heavy volley of rockets hit, dozens within 10 minutes, said Ahmed, a 20-year-old medic.

After the rocket fire subsided, he and his team moved in to check for wounded. Nearing the site, they encountered a powerful smell, then saw people running and screaming, "Chlorine! Chlorine!"

Ahmed ran into the building, trying to reach the shelter. He didn't make it far. He saw two bodies, a man and a woman, but he couldn't go further. His eyes swollen from the fumes, he struggled to breathe. Everywhere was the overpowering smell of chlorine, he said, speaking on condition he be identified only by his first name out of fear for his safety and that of his family.

He rushed to a nearby medical center, where hundreds were crowded, many gasping for breath. Some had fainted. After washing his face and recovering, he joined other medics and went back to the attack site, but the gas was still too strong to get close. Instead they went back and forth helping those who had managed to stagger out get to the medical center.

"After an hour and a half, I couldn't do more," said. "I was in bad shape. I had to rest."

Soon after the attack, Ahmed was among thousands evacuated from Douma as the town surrendered to government forces.

He believes the attack was clearly carried out by Syrian government forces. "It was like an earthquake," he said, speaking to the AP from northern Syria. "The town was facing an earthquake."

___

"IT'S CHLORINE! IT'S CHLORINE!"

Men and women were preparing to perform the sunset Muslim prayers in an underground shelter when an overpowering smell started spreading.

"It's chlorine! It's chlorine!" they screamed.

Khaled Nuseir was in the two-room shelter with 51 other people when the fumes hit. He ran to a nearby clinic, calling for paramedics to help, but fainted in the clinic.

The 25-year-old vegetable vendor said he woke up some time later to people putting vinegar and water on his face. He ran back to the shelter where he found his wife and two daughters dead, white foam covering their mouths.

His wife, Fatmeh Qarout, was nine months pregnant. His daughters, Qamar — Arabic for moon — and Nour — Arabic for light — were 18 months and 2 ½ years old. He said only five people in the shelter survived.

The next morning, medics came and took the bodies and buried them in a mass grave near the town's zoo.

Nuseir said a cylinder was found leaking gas. He said it didn't appear that it was dropped from the air because it still looked intact. "There was no sound of explosion," he said, speaking to the AP in Douma, which is now in government hands.

He and two other residents accused the rebel Army of Islam, which controlled Douma until the militants' surrendered it, of carrying out the attack. As they spoke, government troops were nearby, but out of earshot.

"I lost my children," Nuseir said. "If we are standing here and something falls from an aircraft, doesn't it explode? The cylinder was intact when we found it and it was leaking."

___

"NOTHING SAVED THEM. THEY ALL LOST THEIR LIVES."

Abdullah Abu Hamam tried to reach the site of the attack that night but the bombardment was too strong. He got there the next morning. Even 12 hours later, the gas was too powerful for him to venture into the underground shelters.

Still, he found bodies on all the upper floors. It was clear that when the gas hit, some in the shelters ran upstairs, trying to get to the rooftops.

"They knew that if they climbed up, they might be saved," he said. "We found them on the doorstep, killed. They didn't even make it to the upper floors. ...They fell on the stairs, women and children, and even some men."

Abu Humam took video footage that showed one apartment with at least a dozen bodies, including at least seven toddlers and young children. None had any wounds, and one woman in the footage appeared to have foam around her mouth

"Some were in the bathroom and were trying to wash, but nothing saved them. They all lost their lives," Abu Humam said, speaking from the rebel-held town of al-Bab in northern Syria.

___

Associated Press writer Bassem Mroue in Douma, Syria, contributed to this report.A Florida woman went to a playoff game to cheer on the Tampa Bay Lightning on Saturday, but unfortunately left the arena with more than she bargained for.

Sabrina Pattie was seated in the first level at the Amalie Arena in Tampa just outside the protective netting when a puck flew into the seats and hit her in the face five minutes into the game, according to FOX13 News.

Photos show Pattie with a bruised forehead and left eye.

The Tampa-area teacher said she knew the risks involved when sitting outside the netting at the arena, but she told the station the team could have more safety barriers for fans.

"I would feel more safe and I'm sure many people would feel more safe if there were better protective measures, whether it be glass or nets," she said.

The Lightning apologized for the incident, according to WFLA-TV.

“We are very sorry that Ms. Pattie was struck by a puck at our game on Saturday afternoon. The safety standards as they pertain to the spectator netting and minimum glass heights in all NHL buildings is set by the NHL and these standards are in place at Amalie Arena,” the team said in a statement.

The Lightning defeated the New Jersey Devils in the game, 5-2.

Click for more from Fox 13 News.Once-dedicated fans of the NBA's seventh-seed San Antonio Spurs are increasingly spurning the team because of its head coach's virulent anti-Trump comments, according to a new report.

League veteran Gregg Popovich, 69, has been particularly outspoken about the new White House, calling Trump a "coward" and a "pathological liar" who is "unfit intellectually, emotionally, and psychologically."

In March, Popovich questioned whether the Second Amendment is "useful" any longer, and said Trump "brings out the dark side of human beings" -- criticisms that many of the Spurs faithful took personally.

“I am completely turned off," Spurs ex-fan Cassandra Casanova, 65, told The Washington Post. "After all those years supporting the team, and now I just have no interest. Popovich really messed up.”

Casanova claimed she donated dozens of team t-shirts and other merchandise to charity, and simply ignored the team's playoff opener defeat against the Golden State Warriors in Oakland.

“That’s how angry I got. It ruined my basketball life,” she added. “I took it personally. I was such a loyal fan, and he insulted me. Why would you start attacking the people who had been so loyal?”

Another veteran Spurs fan interviewed by the paper said he was particularly peeved by Popovich's obstinance.

“I often curse Pop for doing what he did." - Spurs fan Bob Mulherin

“I often curse Pop for doing what he did,” said Bob Mulherin. “He insulted more than half of the Spurs’ fan base, and no sign whatsoever of an apology.”

Asked about the article by a reporter earlier this week, Popovich said he did not "care" about its contents. He emphasized that the Spurs organization has never told him to temper his outspoken political beliefs.

Reaction across social media included harsh criticisms of the fans quoted by the paper, including one article at a prominent liberal sports blog that called them "fools" for supporting the president at all.article

International Business Machines posted profit margins that fell short of Wall Street expectations on Tuesday, a sign that its reinvention was taking time.

Continue Reading Below

Shares of the technology company fell 6 percent in after-hours trade even as it reported the second quarter of revenue growth after a near six-year streak of declines.

IBM has in recent years shifted its focus to higher-margin businesses such as cloud computing, cybersecurity and data analytics, to counter a slowdown in its legacy hardware and software businesses, but the move is not going as fast as some shareholders had hoped.

While IBM's revenue and profit beat expectations, the company's adjusted gross profit margin fell to 43.7 percent from 44.5 percent a year earlier.

The company said the decline in gross margin was mostly due to "significant" one-time charges.

On an earnings call with analysts, IBM CFO James Kavanaugh said the company cut costs and took a $610 million charge in the first quarter, though he did not give details.

Advertisement

This announcement follows expectations of layoffs as IBM, under its Chief Executive Ginni Rometty, tries to offset declines from its legacy businesses.

"The margins were well below the expectations," Pivotal Research analyst Lou Miscioscia said.

The company said it had a tax benefit of $810 million, due to changes in the U.S tax law.

Wedbush Securities analyst Moshe Katri said IBM's legacy hardware business continuing to weigh on margins. "It's not necessarily about topline growth; its about profitable growth," Katri said.

In addition, IBM said it continues to expect full-year adjusted earnings per share of at least $13.80, while analysts were expecting more, with the consensus at $13.83, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

"We delivered exactly what we said 90 days ago. The $13.80 is an 'at least' and it's up 1 to 2 percent year over year," Kavanaugh told Reuters in an interview.

IBM's revenue grew 5 percent to $19.07 billion in the quarter with 65 percent growth in sales from security services. Cloud revenue grew 25 percent.

Net profit fell to $1.68 billion, or $1.81 per share, in the first quarter ended March 31, from $1.75 billion, or $1.85 per share, a year earlier.

Excluding items, the company earned $2.45 per share, beating the analyst average estimate of $2.42.

"We feel very comfortable as we enter the second quarter and the remainder of the year that we can actually deliver moving forward," Kavanaugh said.

(Reporting by Pushkala Aripaka and Munsif Vengattil in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Cynthia Osterman)article

Asian stock markets followed Wall Street higher on Wednesday after Beijing added to a swelling trade dispute with Washington by hiking tariffs on U.S. sorghum.

Continue Reading Below

KEEPING SCORE: The Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.4 percent to 3,055.43, ceding early gains, while Tokyo's Nikkei 225 gained 1.5 percent to 22,164.87. Hong Kong's Hang Seng rose 0.3 percent to 30,146.41 and Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 added 0.4 percent to 5,863.00. Seoul's Kospi climbed 1.1 percent to 2,483.15 and benchmarks in Taiwan, New Zealand and Southeast Asia also advanced.

WALL STREET: Technology and consumer-services companies, retailers and health care stocks contributed to a broad rally. Strong company earnings and outlooks, as well as some encouraging economic data, helped put investors in a buying mood. The Standard & Poor's Index rose 1.1 percent to 2,706.39. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 0.9 percent to 24,786.63, nudging the blue chip average into positive territory for the year. The Nasdaq composite climbed 1.7 percent to 7,281.10.

TRADE TENSIONS: China imposed preliminary tariffs of 178.6 percent on U.S. sorghum in an anti-dumping investigation. The United States told the World Trade Organization it has agreed to discuss with China the Trump administration's tariff increases on steel and other Chinese goods. President Donald Trump has threatened to raise tariffs on up to $150 billion of Chinese goods due to disputes over technology policy, market access and Beijing's trade surplus with the United States. China responded with its own list of U.S. goods for retaliation. The dispute has fueled fears it might dent global economic growth if other governments respond by raising their own import barriers.

ANALYST'S TAKE: "Shares rose despite another ratcheting up of trade barriers, this time from China," Michael McCarthy of CMC Markets said in a report. "The measured response of U.S. trading partners has soothed market worries."

CHINA AUTOS: Beijing announced Tuesday that it would allow full foreign ownership in its auto industry in five years, ending restrictions that irked Washington and other governments. The Cabinet's planning agency said it would start by allowing full foreign ownership of producers of electric cars, with similar action later on commercial and traditional passenger vehicles. China is the world's biggest auto market but until now global automakers have been required to work through partnerships with state-owned partners, an arrangement that forces them to share technology with potential competitors.

Advertisement

U.S. ECONOMY: The International Monetary Fund upgraded its economic outlook for the United States in 2018, forecasting that the U.S. economy will grow 2.9 percent this year, up from the 2.7 percent it had forecast in January and from the 2.3 percent growth the economy achieved last year. And the Federal Reserve said that U.S. factory output rose slightly last month.

CHINESE ECONOMY: The world's second-largest economy grew by a stronger-than-expected 6.8 percent over a year earlier in the quarter ending in March. That was in line with the previous quarter, but activity weakened toward the end of the period. Forecasters expect growth to slow this year as Beijing tightens controls on bank lending and a real estate sales boom to curb rising deb.

ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude added 31 cents to $66.83 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract gained 30 cents on Tuesday to settle at $66.52 per barrel. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 30 cents to $71.88 per barrel in London. It added 16 cents the previous session to close at $71.58 per barrel.

CURRENCIES: The dollar gained to 107.31 yen from Tuesday's 107.00 yen. The euro rose to $1.2381 from $1.2373.article

CSX's first-quarter profit nearly doubled thanks to further cost cuts at the railroad and a restructuring that weighed on its earnings a year ago.

Continue Reading Below

The Jacksonville, Florida-based company on Tuesday posted net income of $695 million, or 78 cents per share. That's up from last year's $362 million, or 39 cents per share.

CSX Corp. is continuing the overhaul of its operations that began last year before CEO Hunter Harrison's death in December. His successor, Jim Foote, said CSX is drastically changing the way it operates by reducing the number of locomotives it uses and running trains on a tighter schedule.

"We are making progress, but there is clearly more opportunity ahead," Foote said.

He said he is done apologizing for the railroad's service problems last summer that emerged after the initial operating changes, saying its performance has improved significantly. Federal regulators have stopped requiring weekly calls with CSX on its service.

CSX said it generated $2.88 billion revenue in the first quarter even though the railroad hauled 4 percent fewer carloads of goods.

Advertisement

The results topped Wall Street's expectations. The analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research expected earnings of 66 cents per share in the latest quarter and $2.83 billion revenue.

Edward Jones analyst Dan Sherman said the railroad delivered significantly better cost controls than expected. For instance, the railroad said it had 3,000 fewer employees and had stored more than 800 locomotives compared to a year ago.

CSX's stock chugged ahead 4 percent to $59.

Through the close of regular-session trading Tuesday, the shares had climbed almost 3 percent since the beginning of the year, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index has stayed nearly flat.

_____

Elements of this story were generated by Automated Insights using data from Zacks Investment Research. Access a Zacks stock report on CSX at https://www.zacks.com/ap/CSXarticle

More Target shoppers can now pick up online orders without leaving their cars.

Continue Reading Below

The retailer said Tuesday it has expanded Drive Up service to 270 stores in Florida, Texas and throughout the Southeast. With Drive Up, customers can place orders through the Target mobile app and have their orders delivered to their cars by an employee.

Target said customers using Drive Up can expect to receive their items within two minutes of arriving at the store’s parking lot.

“The Drive Up expansion is another great way we’re leveraging stores, supply chain and digital technologies to better serve guests, and making Target the easiest place to shop,” the retailer said.

The Minneapolis-based company initially launched a test of the program in Minnesota last fall. Under Target’s plans, Drive Up will expand to nearly 1,000 stores in the U.S. by the end of 2018.

Advertisement

Drive Up is now available in Florida, Texas, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma and South Carolina.article

Southwest Airlines shares fell on Tuesday immediately after federal officials said that one person died when an engine of one of the budget carrier’s planes apparently blew up in midair during a flight from New York to Dallas.

Continue Reading Below

National Transportation Safety Board Chairman Robert Sumwalt confirmed the unidentified passenger’s death in a press conference. The incident marked the first U.S. passenger fatality tied to a domestic carrier since 2009. The NTSB has begun an investigation into the accident.

Southwest Airlines’ stock sank by as much as 2% after the NTSB confirmed the passenger’s death and finished the day of trading down more than 1% to $54.27.

Flight 1380 made an emergency landing in Philadelphia after the Boeing 737-700 suffered significant damage to one of its engines. Shrapnel from the engine then damaged one of the plane’s windows and fuselage. Seven other passengers were injured.

WCAU reported that a female passenger was “partially sucked out” of the plane after the malfunction.

"I just remember holding my husband's hand, and we just prayed and prayed and prayed," passenger Amanda Bourman of New York told the Associated Press. "And the thoughts that were going through my head of course were about my daughters, just wanting to see them again and give them a big hug so they wouldn't grow up without parents."

Advertisement

“We are deeply saddened to confirm that there is one fatality resulting from this accident," Southwest said in a statement. "The entire Southwest Airlines Family is devastated and extends its deepest, heartfelt sympathy to the customers, employees, family members and loved ones affected by this tragic event. We have activated our emergency response team and are deploying every resource to support those affected by this tragedy.”article

The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):

Continue Reading Below

4 p.m.

Stocks are closing broadly higher as the market builds on its gains from a day earlier.

Technology and consumer-focused companies posted some of the biggest gains Tuesday.

Microsoft rose 2 percent and Netflix soared 9.2 percent after reporting huge subscriber gains. Amazon rose 4.3 percent.

Tesla fell 1 percent following reports that it was shutting down production of its Model 3 car temporarily to resolve some manufacturing problems.

Advertisement

The S&P 500 index rose 28 points, or 1.1 percent, to 2,706.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 213 points, or 0.9 percent, to 24,786. The Nasdaq composite climbed 124 points, or 1.7 percent, to 7,281.

Bond prices rose. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 2.82 percent.

___

11:45 a.m.

U.S. stocks moved sharply higher in midday trading, adding to the market's gains from a day earlier.

Consumer-focused stocks were among the biggest gainers Tuesday. Netflix soared 8 percent after reporting huge subscriber gains. Amazon rose 2.6 percent.

Technology, industrial and health care stocks also rose. UnitedHealth added 3.2 percent after it reported a hefty jump in profit and raised its 2018 forecast.

The S&P 500 index rose 28 points, or 1.1 percent, to 2,706.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 255 points, or 1 percent, to 24,828. The Nasdaq composite climbed 116 points, or 1.6 percent, to 7,272.

Bond prices didn't move much. The yield on the 10-year Treasury held at 2.83 percent.

___

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening higher on Wall Street, adding to gains from a day earlier.

Technology stocks, retailers and other consumer-focused companies are posting solid gains early Tuesday as investors sized up the latest company earnings news.

Netflix climbed 7 percent after the video streaming service said it gained 7.4 million subscribers in the first quarter.

Goldman Sachs gained 1 percent after its results topped analysts' forecasts.

UnitedHealth added 4.2 percent after it reported a hefty jump in profit and it boosted its 2018 forecast.

The S&P 500 index rose 16 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,694.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 218 points, or 0.9 percent, to 24,791. The Nasdaq composite climbed 56 points, or 0.8 percent, to 7,212.

The yield on the 10-year Treasury held at 2.83 percent.A mysterious "half-human, half animal" creature has been caught on camera after it was said to have savaged two dogs.

The beast is reported to have been spotted prowling through the streets of Santa Fe, Argentina.

The photo was taken after it was said to have butchered a German shepherd and a pit bull.

Some locals likened the creature to a camel, because of its long neck and small head.

PORNHUB STAR YURIZAN BELTRAN, 31, CAUSE OF DEATH FINALLY REVEALED FIVE MONTHS AFTER SHE WAS FOUND DEAD IN BED

It was uploaded to the YouTube channel, UFOmania, and has now been viewed more than 30,000 times.

One person commented: "I saw one of these things in 2005,it was crossing a bridge and we came upon it.

"It blew my mind because it looked at us and turned and began moving just like a kangaroo would and cleared the concrete bridge wall easily and dropped at least 15 to 20 feet."

This article first appeared in The Sun.An alligator was caught checking out rooms at a Quality Inn motel in Sebring, Florida, over the weekend. But officials with the Highlands County Sheriff's Office say the nearly 5-foot-long creature may have just been looking for the perfect spot to day drink.

"We aren't sure if this little guy got locked out of his room at the Quality Inn in Sebring this afternoon or what," the sheriff's office joked in a post online Sunday. "Maybe he was just looking for the tiki bar to get a margatorita, but he didn't look like he was old enough to drink and didn't appear to have any ID in his alligator skin wallet."

The sheriff's office shared a 40-second video of the gator slowly making its way past a block of hotel rooms before turning a corner to head down another hall. Deputies called a licensed trapper who taped the gator's mouth shut, carried it to his truck and relocated it.

ALLIGATOR FIGHTS PYTHON ON FLORIDA GOLF COURSE

"He was cornered by a licensed trapper and taken away. #onlyinflorida," the sheriff's office confirmed in an Instagram post.

As of Monday afternoon, the video of the "partying" gator has received nearly 60,000 views and more than 1,400 shares on Facebook. Dozens of people were quick to crack jokes about the creature.

"Maybe he was just looking for the tiki bar to get a margatorita..." - Highlands County Sheriff's Office

"He’s getting ready for that BYOB," one user replied.

"Excuse me sir... i need to see some ID," another joked.

"Business as usual in Florida.." a local said.

11-FOOT ALLIGATOR CAUGHT IN FLORIDA POOL

Alligators are starting to become more active as the temperature rises. Tammy Sapp, spokeswoman for the Florida Wildlife Commission's Statewide Nuisance Alligator Program (SNAP), warned Floridians should stay alert.

"[They] become more visible and active during spring," Snapp told Fox News in late March. "Their metabolism increases, and they begin seeking prey items."

Anyone who believes an alligator is posing a "threat to people, pets or property" should call FWC’s toll-free hotline at 866-FWC-GATOR, Snapp said.With her cloud of snow-white hair, signature three strand pearls and compelling presence, Barbara Bush's image was what she laughingly called "everybody's grandmother." But the feisty, outspoken Bush was also a tireless advocate for literacy , an author, experienced campaigner and both wife and mother of a U.S. president.

Bush, 92, died Tuesday, shortly after her family announced she was in failing health and would decline further medical treatment in favor of "comfort care." There were no details of her specific health problems.

She is survived by her husband of 73 years, former President George H.W. Bush, five children (a sixth died as a toddler), 17 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.

Her granddaughter, Jenna Bush Hager, told NBC Monday that she and her twin, Barbara, named after her grandmother, had spoken with the family matriarch Sunday night and "she's in great spirits, and she's a fighter and she's an enforcer."

Barbara Bush was born June 8, 1925, in New York City, the third of four children of Marvin Pierce, a magazine publishing executive, and Pauline Robinson Pierce. She grew up in the affluent suburb of Rye, New York, where she was an avid athlete, excelling at swimming and tennis.

As a teen, she attended Ashley Hall, a boarding school in South Carolina. In 1941, when she was 16 and home on Christmas break, she met George Herbert Walker Bush, then a student at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., at a holiday dance. The attraction was immediate and 18 months later, they were engaged.

Barbara entered Smith College but dropped out to marry Bush, who had gone to war as a Navy torpedo bomber pilot. She was 19 and he was 20 when they wed January 6, 1945 in Rye. Years later, she said, "I married the first man I ever kissed. When I tell my children that, they just about throw up. "

As newlyweds, the couple lived in New Haven, Conn., where Bush was a student at Yale and their first child, George W. Bush, was born. They then moved around regularly - to Texas, California, and back to various Texas cities - as the family grew. By the time she moved to Washington for her husband's vice presidency, Barbara Bush estimated they had moved 29 times.

George W. Bush was followed by a sister, Robin, who lived almost four years before dying of leukemia (an event some speculated was the cause of Barbara Bush's hair turning prematurely white). The children who followed were Jeb, Neil, Marvin and Dorothy.

While George - who called his wife "Bar" - built a business in the oil industry, Barbara devoted herself to raising their family. When he entered public life - as a congressman, U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Chairman of the Republican National Committee, Chief of the U.S. Liaison Office in the People's Republic of China, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and later as Vice President, she was at his side.

FOR MORE CLICK HEREPlay Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Fox Business Anchor Melissa Francis and Fox Business Producer Jaimie La Bella join Tom to discuss Melissa's latest new book and the famous Fox News brainroom! Singer, comedian, ventriloquist & celebrity impressionist Terry Fator on discusses his incredible career and latest characters, Paul McCartney and Michael Jackson.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Show Shillue Show LIVE Monday through Friday 3-6 pm Eastern! Find out more at TomShillueShow.comThe Media Research Center conducted an extensive study of major tech companies like Twitter, Facebook, Google, and YouTube after Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg spent two days on Capitol Hill facing accusations that the social media company has an anti-conservative bias. Brent Bozell, the founder, and president of the Media Research Center joined Todd Starnes to discuss the results of the study and the examples of how conservative content is being censored.

Bozell told Starnes that all conservatives are looking for is an equal share in the free marketplace of ideas. Bozell said, "Conservatives have to have, not a seat at the table but a seat as big as any liberals' seat at the table if you're going to be the free marketplace of ideas. We have to have equal footing with the left in there."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

California Fights Back! Los Alamitos Council members voted 4-1 to opt out of a state law that prohibited state and local police agencies from informing federal authorities in cases when illegal immigrants facing deportation are released from detention. And as the Trump administration says California Gov. Jerry Brown rejected terms of the National Guard's initial deployment to the Mexican border, more and more cities are rejecting the state's sanctuary city laws. Will the people's voices be heard and start a real crackdown on illegal immigration?Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

A new Advanced Placement honors American history textbook that is currently being pitched to public high schools is already stirring controversy for being anti-Trump.

Tarra Snyder, a student at Rosemount High School in Minnesota, told Todd Starnes the book "By the People: A History of the United States" could lead to students being "educated with skewed facts."

Snyder said, "I think that if people are only being educated with skewed facts or half the information, then a good debate can't happen and they can't be fully informed to make an appropriate decision on where they stand on the political spectrum."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Listen to the whole interview here:Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

"I think it's fair to say he has his supporters, he has his detractors. Jim is an honorable public servant but like all of us he is flawed and like all of us he has made some mistakes."

---Alberto Gonzales on James Comey

Alberto Gonzales, former United States Attorney General and the former Counsel to President George W. Bush, spoke with Brian Kilmeade about the type of person he believes James Comey is, why he doesn't think politics played a role in Robert Muller handing off information about Michael Cohen, unrelated to the Russia investigation, to Rod Rosenstein and if Sean Hannity's attorney client privilege was violated when it was revealed he was a client of Michael Cohen.

Listen here:

Click her to order "True Faith and Allegiance: A Story of Service and Sacrifice in War and Peace"Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The Founder of Ballin 4 Peace, Haron Hargrave stopped by to spend "A Few Moments With" FOX News' Crystal Berger to discuss how he's using basketball to promote peace across the country. After playing Basketball internationally in China, Romania, Columbia and the Dominican Republic, Haron returned home to New York City and used his Queens entrepreneurial spirit to establish H2O Basketball--a youth basketball training program that transforms not only athletic skillsets, but mindsets as well. Haron shares the intimate details of best friend's murder, how having mentors helped him and why he's stepped in to make a difference through his 4th Annual Ballin' for Peace Celebrity Basketball Game.

Listen to the interview below:Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

First Liberty Institute has sent a letter to the U.S. Army urging it to reverse an investigator's decision that Army Chaplain Scott Squires be disciplined for following both Army regulations and the religious tenets of his endorsing denomination.

The original complaint against Chaplain Squires began when he explained to a soldier that he was unable to conduct a Strong Bonds marriage retreat that included same-sex couples due to restrictions by the North American Mission Board.

Todd Starnes spoke with First Liberty Institute Deputy General Counsel and Director of Military Affairs Michael Berry about how other chaplains could be affected if the decision against Chaplain was not reversed. Berry said, "That would mean a chaplain can't even talk about their religious beliefs without being accused of discrimination. That would strip thousands of chaplains across our military of their most basic freedoms under the First Amendment."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

During his first interview since being fired, former FBI Director James Comey described President Trump as an ego-driven liar who treats women like "meat" and is "morally unfit to be president." The White House has launched a counterattack against these accusations saying the former FBI director is just playing politics.

Todd Starnes spoke with Special Assistant to President Trump and White House Deputy Press Secretary Hogan Gidley about Comey's book, who said there is "nothing in this book except his own petty opinions on nonsensical issues."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

"I just think the bargain bin in the fiction section in a lot of bookstores in this town are going to be filled up with this book before too long," Gidley said.

Listen to the whole interview here:Representative Jim Jordan (R-OH) joined Todd Starnes to talk about the accusations former FBI Director James Comey has made about President Trump in Comey's new book and interview with ABC News. Representative Jordan also addressed whether he will put his name into consideration to replace Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI) as Speaker of the House.

Rep. Jordan said Comey didn't have much credibility, to begin with, before the ABC interview and he added: "I don't think he did anything to improve that standing." He also believes that Comey "screwed up the Clinton investigation all the way through" as well.

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

When asked about whether he would like to become the next Speaker of the House, Rep. Jordan said, "If and when there is a race for Speaker, I've had some colleagues encourage me, and I'll be open to looking at that."

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."More local governments in California appear to be resisting the state's efforts to prevent the Trump administration's immigration crackdown. Before San Diego County decides on Tuesday whether to join the Trump administration's lawsuit against California over the state's sanctuary city laws, Supervisor Kristin Gaspar joined Todd Starnes to explain why she supports joining the lawsuit.

Gaspar said that sanctuary city laws have "people really charged up and it's not all one-sided." She also said families in San Diego County have been stopping her to thank her for her efforts to fight these laws.

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

"Our primary purpose and our primary responsibility on the county board is to protect people (and) to keep people safe in our community," Gaspar said.

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."