Dozens of gang members, some of whom belonged to the notorious MS-13, were shielded from deportation and released due to "sanctuary" policies last year, according to newly released stats from the Department of Homeland Security.

The revelation could jolt the escalating "sanctuary" debate, especially in California where many of those gang members were located.

"Two-thirds of the releases occurred in California, which has had a strict sanctuary policy in effect since January 2014," the Center for Immigration Studies said in a post on the data, pointing to "obvious public safety problems."

Gang members released due to 'sanctuary' policies, by state From Oct. 1, 2016 to June 19, 2017: Arizona: 1 California: 89 Illinois: 3 Louisiana: 2 Maryland: 13 Minnesota: 1 New Jersey: 2 New Mexico: 2 New York: 4 Oregon: 2 Rhode Island: 1 Texas: 11 Washington: 11 Data from Department of Homeland Security

DHS officials provided a breakdown of gang members that were released in fiscal 2017, in response to questions posed in June by the Senate Judiciary Committee at a hearing on the rise of MS-13.

From October 2016 to June 2017, DHS says, sanctuary jurisdictions refused to honor Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers on 142 suspected gang members -- where ICE officials ask authorities to detain criminal illegal immigrants so ICE can take custody and deport them.

In the answers, the officials added that the numbers may be on the conservative side as jurisdictions that do not allow officials into jails make it more challenging to identify gang members.

"Because ICE often determines gang affiliation through interviews, ICE cannot speculate about the number of times it was denied access to an alien in the custody of state or local authorities who may have had such an affiliation," the answers read.



Fifteen of those released were suspected members of MS-13, a gang started in the 1980s by Central American immigrants and known for its gruesome crimes. The gang's presence across the country has been an escalating political issue.



“Violence is a central tenet of MS-13, as evidenced by its core motto -- “mata, viola, controla,” translated as, ‘kill, rape, control,’ the DOJ said in a 2016 release.

WHAT IS MS-13, THE VIOLENT GANG TRUMP VOWED TO TARGET?

The majority (89) of suspected gang members released were in California -- whose state leaders are locked in a high-profile battle with the Trump administration, and even some of its own cities, over the state’s sanctuary policies. The Department of Justice filed a lawsuit against the state last month, claiming that the policies prevent federal authorities from enforcing immigration laws.



On Tuesday, San Diego County became the latest local jurisdiction to back the lawsuit, claiming it limits police cooperation with federal agents. San Diego County is the largest county so far to back the suit, and its move comes after Orange County has also supported the administration.



California Gov. Jerry Brown said Tuesday that President Trump’s stance against illegal immigration is “just an inflammatory football that very low-life politicians like to exploit.”

SAN DIEGO VOTES TO JOIN TRUMP ADMINISTRATION'S LAWSUIT AGAINST CALIFORNIA'S SANCTUARY CITY LAW

If Trump “wants to round them up like some totalitarian government and ship them out, say that,” Brown said. “But he doesn’t say that because the American people would repudiate him and his party.”

Trump has repeatedly hailed the pushback against Brown and on Wednesday tweeted that there was a “revolution” in the state against sanctuary policies, which he called “ridiculous, crime infested & breeding concept.”

ICE figures show a surge in arrests related to MS-13. In fiscal 2017, there were 796 arrests of MS-13 members, compared with 432 in fiscal 2016 and 322 in fiscal 2015. More broadly, ICE’s Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) said that 5,396 gang members were removed in fiscal 2017, compared with 2,057 in fiscal 2016.

DHS is also calling for tougher border security measures to combat MS-13.

In the questions posed to DHS officials, Sen. Mazie Hirono, D-Hawaii, asked officials whether a border wall would stem the violence from MS-13, to which the officials said it would, calling it a “cornerstone” in preventing criminals from entering the country.



“The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) believes further securing our border will impact the medium- and long-term health of MS-13 and the level of violence it perpetrates,” the response said. “As many current MS-13 gang members are illegal border entrants, DHS believes increasing border security will discourage the arrival of both current gang members and potential recruits.”



Additionally, officials said that MS-13 members regularly exploit border vulnerabilities and that U.S. Border Patrol agents arrest MS-13 members trying to enter the country “on a near-daily basis.”

Fox News' Joseph Weber, William LaJeunesse and Paulina Dedaj contributed to this report.A federal judge says Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach violated her order that some voters were eligible to cast a ballot while a lawsuit challenging a state law requiring proof of U.S. citizenship worked its way through the courts.

U.S. District Judge Julie Robinson found Kobach in contempt of court Wednesday. She didn't impose a fine but ordered Kobach to pay for damages, including attorney fees.

The American Civil Liberties Union sought the contempt ruling after Kobach refused to update the state's election guide or ensure that county officials sent postcards to residents who registered at driver licensing offices without providing citizenship documents.

Robinson said in March that she had made it clear voters covered by a May 2016 injunction she imposed were not to be treated differently.Officials at the U.S. Embassy in Germany hired a professor for a speaking engagement who once compared President Trump's rhetoric to that of the Islamic State. It's a move some lawmakers say is what you get when ambassador appointments aren't properly confirmed and deployed around the world.

"Germany is a very important partner to the United States," Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., told Fox News. "It's hard to believe that the U.S. Embassy would invite someone who wrote those things about the president to speak."

The professor in question -- Arie Kruglanski, who co-founded the National Center for the Study of Terrorism and the Response to Terrorism -- wrote in December 2015 that both Trump and ISIS “exploit the fear and uncertainty so prevalent in the world today and skillfully cultivate it.”

“The outcomes of their incitements can be disastrous,” Kruglanski added in an opinion piece published in The Guardian. “If not arrested and resisted, they would set the world afire sowing chaos, death and destruction all around.”

Kruglanski was, despite his writings, invited to Berlin in February to discuss Trump’s national security strategy with U.S. diplomats and their German counterparts.

The U.S. Embassy in Berlin did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. But its website noted that “as part of our nationwide speaker program, the U.S. Embassy regularly brings U.S. experts to Germany to promote mutual exchange on relevant topics.”

In an email to Fox News, Kruglanski said the topics he was asked to discuss in Berlin were unrelated to his critique of Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign.

“I was invited to speak about my research on violent extremism, a topic that I have studied all over the world and in a variety of manifestations,” he said. “It is unrelated to my analysis of President Trump's rhetoric during the campaign, which was the nature of my ‘criticism.'”

The incident for some has highlighted the fact that the U.S. Embassy in Germany has been without an American ambassador since the day Trump was inaugurated, while Democrats continue to block the nomination of Richard Grenell, a Trump pick with extensive foreign policy experience.

Trump tapped Grenell – the former spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the the United Nations under President George W. Bush – in September. But despite support from some Democrats as well as Republicans, his confirmation – along with those of a number of key ambassadorial nominees -- has been held up in the Senate.

"The Democrats have made a concerted effort to prevent President Trump from putting his team in place," Senator Barrasso said. "It's purely a political move on their part."

Barrasso wants to change a rule that allows for 30 hours of Senate discussion per nominee, which Republicans say effectively allows Democrats to jam up the appointment process. Barrasso wants to limit the number of hours of discussion to eight -- a standard Democrats supported under the Obama administration.

Grenell's nomination, which has been championed by a broad range of Republican and conservative officials and commentators, has also picked up the support of a liberal gay rights group, the Harvey Milk Foundation. If confirmed, Grennell – a former contributor to Fox News – will be the Trump administration's first openly gay ambassador.

“I understand those who are frustrated with the Trump administration" and its actions, Stuart Milk, the co-founder of the group, recently told The New York Times. “And I think that’s misguided." (Milk helped establish the group in honor of his uncle, a prominent gay civil rights pioneer in California who was gunned down some three decades ago.)

Senate Majority Leader Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., last month called for unanimous voice consent to push the nomination through. But Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., objected, citing his objections to some comments Grenell made on Twitter that he says showed "a complete disregard for the Senate confirmation process."

Grenell’s supporters pushed back strongly on Merkley’s objections, noting that the tweets since he was nominated last fall have focused on foreign policy issues.

Grenell declined to comment to Fox News while he awaits Senate action.I applaud President Trump’s efforts to apply maximum pressure on North Korea at the same time he is seeking a diplomatic resolution to the crisis caused by the rogue regime’s development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles. But I have a warning for him: Mr. President, be careful – be very careful – and don’t trust the North Koreans. They have a long record of lying again and again to your predecessors.

CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s historic meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, confirmed by President Trump on Wednesday, is the strongest signal yet that President Trump’s dual-track approach is paying off.

But we have every reason to be skeptical.

History cries out for the U.S. and our allies to be cautious in dealing with the North. Only the verified actions of the North Koreans should unlock a change in our policies towards them. No amount of their words or vague promises should ever be rewarded.

When it comes to dealing with North Korea, we are very much in the land of the unknown.

We went through a tumultuous 2017, filled with missile test after missile test flying through the skies of Asia –some directly over Japan – along with a hydrogen bomb test and North Korean threats of war. We should thank our lucky stars that our worst fears never came to pass.

And in fact, a new year seems to have opened new possibilities. For whatever reason – whether economic isolation, the realization that his nation was on an unsustainable path, or demands by his Chinese masters – Kim has been doing all he can to rehabilitate his image and his nation’s.

After Kim delivered a New Year’s Day speech in which he embraced South Korea’s Olympic Games that led to North Korean participation in the games, the stage was set for a rapprochement between the North and South.

Following multiple rounds of diplomacy between both sides, the world will watch televised coverage of a summit between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27.

The North-South summit could formally end the Korean War by beginning negotiations on a peace treaty to replace an armistice that halted fighting in 1953. That might shape a dramatic change in relations for both nations. Add in the ever-growing possibility of a U.S.-North Korea summit and even a Japan-North Korea summit.

All this makes the world ever more hopeful that the long crisis on the Korean Peninsula could very well be coming to an end.

But before we get too optimistic about a peaceful resolution of the Korean crisis and start expecting the North to abandon its nuclear weapons, let’s be realistic. Kim has worked hard to build up his nuclear arsenal and has every reason – short of imminent regime collapse – to hold onto his nukes.

Kim sees nuclear weapons as his life insurance policy for his regime and for himself – a deterrent that protects his country from a military confrontation with the U.S., South Korea, or Japan – or all three combined. Such a confrontation could depose his regime and end with the death of many North Koreans – including Kim.

Only the most senior U.S. officials have any idea what Kim might be thinking or what he has conveyed to U.S. diplomats. But the danger is clear: North Korea could be doing all it can to offer very broad guarantees to suck in the U.S. and its allies into multiple summits – and years of protracted negotiations – without giving up anything at all.

Meetings with President Trump and with South Korean leaders will enable Kim to look like a global statesman and boost his status. His image and profile will be slowly rehabilitated – showing North Koreans he can stand toe-to-toe with the world’s most powerful nation and be respected as an equal.

This would give the North Korean dictator a huge boost domestically, showing that he deserves the respect and loyalty of his people, as he has stared down and brought to heel the American imperial menace.

How will we know that this is Kim’s ploy?

First, look for North and South Korea to make no mention of the removal of nuclear weapons in their talks next week. North Korea has insisted in the past that such an issue can only be resolved between Washington and Pyongyang. Seoul, eager to create the atmosphere for better relations and a diplomatic breakthrough, will likely punt this topic to President Trump’s summit with Kim.

Next, look for the North Koreans to offer President Trump a deal to denuclearize over a long period of time, with multiple rounds of negotiations – but only after they get the benefit of a sit-down meeting with the leader of the free world.

If North Korea is unwilling to tip its hand before the meeting with President Trump – or is unwilling to make any concrete promises before the meeting that can be vetted by U.S. officials involving denuclearization in the form of a roadmap – President Trump should walk away and cancel the summit.

And from here, things get even dicer.

If the Trump administration’s goal is to see a fully denuclearized North Korea – and if Kim is willing to talk before a summit – we must have Pyongyang define what the term “denuclearize” means. The meaning may seem obvious – getting rid of every single nuclear weapon and never building another – but it’s easy to see North Korea arguing over what the term means.

Once we define denuclearization, what exact time frame would the North Koreans agree to accomplish this? What would they want in return? We should not give the North any benefits until the process is complete.

And – of absolutely critical importance – how would any action North Korea takes to get rid of its nuclear weapons be verified beyond doubt? A claim by the North that it has taken action without proof is worthless.

If North Korea will not provide answers to these questions, President Trump’s goal can’t be accomplished. And that means we should not give Kim the photo-op with President Trump that he so badly desires.

And unless and until America gets the verifiable agreement that satisfies the Trump administration, our policy of maximum pressure on North Korea should be maintained and strengthened.

Clearly, we are entering historic times in Northeast Asia. Yes, there is a possibility that Kim might be willing to get rid of his nuclear weapons – but that possibility is remote. Or perhaps he might be willing to limit his nuclear and missile force and never expand it.

But history screams out. It tells us to reread its warn pages when it comes to North Korea and realize that – more likely than not – Kim is laying the groundwork to dupe us again with false promises he has no intention of keeping.

Be cautious, President Trump. Chances are this is all a giant ruse.For years, Donna Abert Andrich has held onto a letter addressed to Barbara Bush. She wanted to thank the former first lady for saving her life when she was just 5 years old — but she never knew how to reach her.

The now retired middle school art teacher from Aldine ISD in Houston, Texas, briefly crossed paths with the Bushes back in 1959 when they were staying at a luxury apartment in Houston, located on Del Monte Drive. Several well-known people stayed at the short-term housing complex before moving into their new homes.

"You, George and your children had just moved to Houston from Midland and were waiting for your house to be ready," Andrich wrote in the 2014 letter provided to Fox News.

The apartment complex had a courtyard and large pool, where tenants enjoyed playing water volleyball under the hot Texan sun. Andrich, who was born just two days apart from Bush's son, Jeb, recalled watching the adults from the shallow end of the pool before she lost her footing.

"I slipped down under and began to realize I was under everyone’s legs drifting farther down," Andrich explained. "I did not know how to swim nor was I wearing a life jacket. I remember it being very pleasant and really didn’t know I was drowning."

Bush then spotted the drowning child from a nearby lawn chair. She jumped up and dove into the pool without giving it a second thought.

LOVE LETTER FROM GEORGE HW BUSH TO BARBARA FROM WW2 GOES VIRAL

"You immediately got out of your chair, jumped in and pulled me out! I don’t think you were wearing a bathing suit either," Andrich reminded Bush in the letter. "You saved my life, but jeopardized your own."

"I think she does need to hear [this story] and I think that her family needs to know this." - Donna Abert Andrich

Andrich's parents, Donald and Alva, thanked the former first lady for her "heroic act." Bush smiled and invited the family over. Inside, Andrich remembers admiring a painting of the pair's late daughter, Robin.

"We were amazed how similar she and I looked alike," Andrich said.

Andrich never saw the Bush family again, but she never forgot about that day nor her rescuer. Days before Mrs. Bush died, on April 17, Andrich shared her story with local news station KPRC-TV in hopes the family would hear the uplifting story.

BARBARA BUSH VIEWING, FUNERAL PLANS SET

"I think she does need to hear [this story] and I think that her family needs to know this," Andrich told the news station.

Andrich, who had been a teacher for more than 28 years, said Bush, a tireless advocate for literacy, inspired her career.

"[It] has been the most difficult but the most rewarding career I could have had. I truly felt a strong calling that I could make a difference in my student’s lives," she said.



Bush was not only an experienced campaigner, first lady, wife and mother — she was a "guardian angel," Andrich said.

"Thank you for your 'selfless act of bravery.' I am very grateful for you being there at the right time," Andrich concluded the letter.Speculation about a potential presidential run for former Attorney General Eric Holder has heated up after he announced he would speak at the New Hampshire Institute of Politics’ annual “Politics & Eggs,” an event that many former candidates once attended.

A press release from Holder’s officer announced Wednesday that on June 1, the Obama administration official would be the featured guest speaker at the annual breakfast event.

According to the press release, “the Politics & Eggs series is a forum for presidential candidates, political leaders, and other political analysts and commentators as they visit New Hampshire, home of the nation's first presidential primaries.”

A number of former presidential hopefuls attended the event in the past, including President Donald Trump, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Gov. John Kasich, R-Ohio, The Hill reported.

The same day that news broke of his trip to New Hampshire, Al Sharpton also alluded to a presidential bid for Holder while introducing him at the National Action Network’s Annual National Convention in New York.

‘YOU RUN THE DAMN JUSTICE DEPARTMENT’: HOLDER SAYS SESSIONS MUST ‘HAVE THE GUTS’ TO SAY NO TO TRUMP

“Some folks are talking about a guy called Eric who might run for president,” he said. “I’m just saying what I’m hearing. I wouldn’t put him on the spot with a ‘run Eric, run.’ I wouldn’t do that.”

Earlier this week, Holder himself seemed to hint at the likelihood of a run during an interview with MSNBC’S “All in With Chris Hayes.”

When asked if he was “considering it,” Holder replied “I’m thinking about it but I’ve not made any determinations.”

Fox News’ Peter Doocey contributed to this report.The Environmental Protection Agency is correcting the record, claiming news reports about bulletproof tires and bullet-resistant seat covers to protect its embattled chief Scott Pruitt at government expense were inaccurate.

EPA spokesman Jahan Wilcox told Fox News: “We would like to put this rumor to rest. EPA has no bulletproof vehicles, tires or seat covers, the agency has no contracts for any bulletproof vehicles, tires or seat covers, and the agency never sought any contracts for bulletproof vehicles, tires or seat covers.”

Wilcox also sent to Fox News “the federal purchase order, which reveals there was no purchase of bulletproof tires or bullet-resistant covers.”

Wilcox added, “In response to an individual attempting to assassinate numerous Congressional Republicans while they practiced for a charity baseball game, EPA’s Protective Service Detail placed bullet-proof vests over each seat.”

Leftist gunman James Hodgkinson allegedly attacked Republican lawmakers as they practiced for the annual Congressional baseball game last June. House Majority Whip Steve Scalise was one of four injured on the Virginia baseball diamond.

Pruitt has been under intense scrutiny since it was first revealed last month that he had stayed last year in a bargain-priced Capitol Hill condo tied to a fossil-fuels lobbyist.

The EPA administrator and those around him are the subject of multiple investigations launched by government watchdogs and congressional committees looking into luxury travel expenses, outsized security spending and massive raises awarded to political appointees.

President Donald Trump defended Pruitt in a tweet earlier this month, downplaying the ethical questions swirling around his EPA chief. He added that Pruitt’s security spending was “somewhat more” than prior EPA chiefs, but said Pruitt had received death threats “because of his bold actions at EPA.”

Fox News’ John Roberts and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Sen. Bernie Sanders gave a shout-out to Cardi B on Twitter Wednesday, agreeing with the rapper's views on social security.

"Cardi B is right," Sanders, an Independent senator from Vermont, tweeted. "If we are really going to make America great we need to strengthen Social Security so that seniors are able to retire with the dignity they deserve."

He followed up with a second tweet, thanking Cardi B "for calling attention to the importance of Social Security."

The 25-year-old rapper, whose debut studio album, "Invasion of Privacy," has drawn huge success and opened at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 Albums Chart, addressed the topic of social security — and her knowledge of American presidents — in a GQ profile last week.

Cardi B said former President Franklin D. Roosevelt, or FDR, made "America great again for real."

"He's the real 'Make America Great Again,' because if it wasn't for him, old people wouldn't even get Social Security," she said.

FDR signed the Social Security Act into law in 1935 as part of a series of programs — dubbed the "New Deal" — launched in response to the Great Depression.

CARDI B DEMANDS TO KNOW WHERE HER TAX MONEY GOES IN EXPLETIVE-FILLED RANT

The "Bodak Yellow" artist's views on social security did not mark her first foray into politics. Last month, she posted an expletive-filled video online asking what her tax dollars are benefiting.

“So you know the government is taking 40 percent of my taxes and Uncle Sam, I want to f--king know what you're doing with my f--king tax money!” she said.California State University's Fresno campus is investigating after one of their English professors tweeted she was "happy" former first lady Barbara Bush was dead just an hour after her passing was announced.

The author and professor, Randa Jarrar, tweeted a slew of comments about Bush, calling her "a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal."

OUTRAGE AS CALIFORNIA PROF CALLS BARBARA BUSH 'AMAZING RACIST' AND SAYS SHE'S HAPPY 'WITCH IS DEAD'

Bush, 92, died Tuesday night just days after her family announced her health was failing.

Amid the backlash to her tweets, Jarrar, who also said she "can't wait for the rest of [the Bush] family to fall to their demise," said that she couldn't get fired from her job at Fresno State because of tenure.

“I work as a tenured professor. I make 100K a year doing that. I will never be fired. I will always have people wanting to hear what I have to say," she wrote on Twitter.

The university's provost, Lynnette Zelezny, referred to the professor's comments as "disrepectful" during a news conference Wednesday, and said the school is taking the situation "very seriously."

"We understand the concern from the community and we are taking this very seriously," Zelezny said, according to The Fresno Bee. "To answer the technical question: Can she not be fired? The answer is no."

Fresno State has reportedly not been in contact with Jarrar, who has been on a leave of absense during the spring semester.

BARBARA BUSH REMEMBERED BY POLITICIANS, LAWMAKERS AROUND THE WORLD: 'AN ADVOCATE OF THE AMERICAN FAMILY'

Following Jarrar's tweets Tuesday, the university's president, Joseph Castro, also distanced the school from the professor's controversial comments, saying they raise "deep concerns" and were made "as a private citizen."

In a statement, Castro extended the school's "deepest condolences to the Bush family on the loss of our former First Lady, Barbara Bush."

Fox News' Lukas Mikelionis contributed to this report.The funeral for former first lady Barbara Bush, who died Tuesday at the age of 92, will be attended by many high-profile figures, including first lady Melania Trump and former President Barack Obama.

A funeral service for the Bush matriarch, who once called herself “everybody’s grandmother,” is planned for Saturday at St. Martin’s Episcopal Church in Houston, Texas. She and her husband of more than 70 years, former President George H.W. Bush, regularly attended the church.

The burial will be on the grounds of the Bush library at Texas A&M University in College Station, about 100 miles northwest of Houston. The couple’s 3-year-old daughter, Robin, who died in 1953 of leukemia, is also buried at the site.

Here’s a look at who will attend the beloved former first lady’s private funeral.

Melania Trump

First lady Melania Trump will attend the service, spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham confirmed.

“Throughout her life, she put family and country above all else. Her dedicated service to the American people was matched only by her compassion and love of family,” Trump said in a statement after Bush’s death. “She was a woman of strength and we will always remember her for her most important roles of wife, mother, and First Lady of the United States.”

Barack and Michelle Obama

Former President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama will attend the funeral, a spokeswoman confirmed to Fox News.

After she died, Obama and his wife praised Bush “for the generosity she showed to us throughout our time in the White House.”

“But we’re even more grateful for the way she lived her life -- as a testament to the fact that public service is an important and noble calling; as an example of the humility and decency that reflects the very best of the American spirit,” the Obamas said.

Bill and Hillary Clinton

Former President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, the former secretary of state, are expected to attend the funeral, Fox News has confirmed.

“Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She had grit [and] grace, brains [and] beauty,” the former president said on social media. “She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like.”

Before Bush died, Hillary Clinton said she was “wishing her the comfort she deserves surrounded by her loved ones.” The former 2016 presidential candidate and first lady also thanked Bush for “her many kindnesses to me and my family.”

Clinton beat Bush’s husband when he ran for re-election in the 1992 election. But he has since grew close to his predecessor and Barbara Bush, visiting them at their summer home in Kennebunkport, Maine. Clinton often joked that he spent so much time with the Bushes that he’d become like a member of the family.

Fox News’ Jenny Buchholz, Mike Emanuel and The Associated Press contributed to this report.James Comey on Wednesday confirmed he was the one who kick-started the inspector general probe that led to his former deputy Andrew McCabe’s ouster, while seeming to back its findings that McCabe lied about a media leak.

The comments could add to a sense of tension between the two men, as McCabe's lawyers take swipes at Comey on the sidelines.

The fired FBI director addressed his former colleague's controversies during an appearance on ABC’s “The View,” after being pressed by host Megan McCain on how the public was supposed to have “confidence” in the bureau after revelations that ex-deputy director McCabe lied about the leak.

“It’s not okay. The McCabe case illustrates what an organization committed to the truth looks like,” Comey said. “I ordered that investigation.”

'The McCabe case illustrates what an organization committed to the truth looks like. I ordered that investigation.' - Former FBI Director James Comey on ABC's "The View"

Comey seemed to defend McCabe's character even while backing the DOJ inspector general probe's findings.

“Good people lie. I think I’m a good person, where I have lied,” Comey said. “I still believe Andrew McCabe is a good person but the inspector general found he lied.”

Comey added that there are “severe consequences” within the Justice Department and the FBI for those who lie.

Last week, Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz released a report based on a months-long probe into McCabe. The report found the onetime acting FBI director leaked a self-serving story to the press and later lied about it to Comey and federal investigators, prompting Attorney General Jeff Sessions to fire him on March 16.

While Comey may not have intentionally launched the investigation gunning for McCabe, it was spurred by a desire to find who leaked to The Wall Street Journal in October 2016 about an FBI probe of the Clinton Foundation. The story said a senior Justice Department official expressed displeasure to McCabe that FBI agents were still looking into the Clinton Foundation, and McCabe had defended agents' authority to pursue the issue.

That leak confirmed the existence of the probe into the Clinton Foundation, which Comey, who led the bureau at the time, refused to do.

Horowitz’s report said McCabe authorized the leak and then misled investigators about it, leaking in a way that did not fall under the “public interest” exception.

DOJ IG RELEASES EXPLOSIVE REPORT THAT LED TO FIRING OF EX-FBI DEPUTY DIRECTOR ANDREW MCCABE

Horowitz found that McCabe lacked “candor” when questioned by FBI agents on multiple occasions, and that he told agents he did not authorize the disclosure and did not know who was responsible.

Comey's role in the probe was reported earlier Wednesday by The Daily Beast, which said Comey asked the IG to look into the leak.

McCabe was fired from his post as FBI deputy director just days before he would have been eligible for a lifetime pension. Prior to his official firing, McCabe was removed from his post in January.

At the time, Comey defended his former deputy on Twitter.

"Special Agent Andrew McCabe stood tall over the last 8 months, when small people were trying to tear down an institution we all depend on. He served with distinction for two decades. I wish Andy well. I also wish continued strength for the rest of the FBI. America needs you," Comey tweeted.

TRUMP CALLS FIRED MCCABE 'CHOIRBOY,' SUGGESTS FBI CORRUPTION 'AT THE HIGHEST LEVELS'

But McCabe’s legal counsel, Michael Bromwich, has blasted the inspector general report and has criticized Comey. The report said Comey and McCabe gave conflicting accounts about a conversation they had on the leak.

“The OIG should credit Mr. McCabe’s account over Director Comey’s,” Bromwich wrote to Horowitz in a letter, complaining that the report “paints Director Comey as a white knight carefully guarding FBI information, while overlooking that Mr. McCabe’s account is more credible…”

He issued a similar statement Wednesday in response to Comey's interview comments:

"In his comments this week about the McCabe matter, former FBI Director James Comey has relied on the accuracy and the soundness of the Office of the Inspector General's (OIG) conclusions in their report on Mr. McCabe. In fact, the report fails to adequately address the evidence (including sworn testimony) and documents that prove that Mr. McCabe advised Director Comey repeatedly that he was working with the Wall Street Journal on the stories in question prior to publication. Neither Mr. Comey nor the OIG is infallible, and in this case neither of them has it right."

President Trump, following the release of the inspector general report, tweeted that McCabe was a liar.

“DOJ just issued the McCabe report—which is a total disaster. He LIED! LIED! LIED! McCabe was totally controlled by Comey –McCabe is Comey!! No collusion, all made up by this den of thieves and lowlifes!” Trump tweeted Friday.

Fox News’ Jake Gibson and Adam Shaw contributed to this report.I've been watching hours and hours of nonstop coverage about Sean Hannity.

And while what was disclosed in a federal court in Manhattan is clearly newsworthy, many of Fox's competitors have made no effort to hide their glee in slamming the top-rated host in cable news.

Hannity regularly denounces what he calls the "destroy-Trump media" in vehement terms. So for some of his rivals, this is payback.

Others are journalists covering what is obviously a highly unusual story about the president, the president's lawyer, and the president's most high-profile defender on television.

What emerged in a court proceeding involving Michael Cohen, Trump's personal lawyer, is that one of his clients—whose name he had tried to keep secret—is Hannity.

This was Hannity's initial statement when the news broke Monday afternoon while he was doing his radio show:

"Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective."

Hannity later called the media coverage "absolutely apoplectic and hyperventilating." He said his dealings with Cohen were almost exclusively about real estate. He did say "I may have handed him $10 once" and "I requested attorney-client privilege."

Did Fox News know about this? The prime-time host said his relationship with Cohen never rose to the level that he felt he had to inform his bosses.

Here’s the problem: Hannity needed to inform his viewers.

Even if his relationship with Cohen was merely that of a friend who informally provided some legal guidance, Michael Cohen has been very much in the news. He is under investigation in the Mueller probe. He and Trump are embroiled in a lawsuit over Cohen having paid Stormy Daniels $130,000 to keep her quiet near the end of the 2016 campaign.

When the FBI raided Cohen's office and hotel room last week, Hannity took to the airwaves to defend him.

"Keep in mind that Cohen was never part of the Trump administration or the Trump campaign," Hannity said on his show. He declared that "this is now officially an all-hands-on-deck effort to totally malign and, if possible, impeach the president of the United States."

But his viewers didn't know he was talking about a friend who has given him legal advice. That was a mistake.

The network issued a statement Tuesday: "While Fox News was unaware of Sean Hannity's informal relationship with Michael Cohen and was surprised by the announcement in court yesterday, we have reviewed the matter and spoken to Sean and he continues to have our full support."

Alan Dershowitz, the liberal lawyer who has become a Trump defender, challenged the host on Hannity's show Monday night.

"I really think you should have disclosed your relationship with Cohen," Dershowitz told him. Hannity described the relationship as "minimal."

"I understand that, and you should've said that," Dershowitz said. "You were in a tough position because, A, you had to talk about Cohen, and, B, you didn't want the fact that you had spoken with him to be revealed."

Hannity responded that "I have the right to privacy. It was such a minor relationship." Dershowitz stood his ground.

Hannity has talked about his relationship with Cohen in the past. As The New York Times noted, when Cohen appeared on his radio show shortly before the inauguration, Hannity said: "Full disclosure: a personal friend of mine, long before this election ever started."

Had he done that, and mentioned the legal advice, when he started discussing Cohen as the New York lawyer became enmeshed in various Trump controversies, there would have been no issue. Viewers and listeners could factor in the friendship in evaluating Hannity's commentary.

Sean Hannity is a committed conservative and a passionate supporter of Donald Trump. He makes that clear every day. While he deals with news stories on his program, he is paid for his opinions.

Hannity speaks to the president regularly. They have had dinner. They have socialized at Mar-a-Lago. Trump promotes his show on Twitter. So no one who watches "Hannity" at 9 p.m. eastern is under any illusions. This is a commentator who not only fiercely defends Trump but fiercely attacks his antagonists in law enforcement, Congress and the media.

Some of those who castigated or mocked Hannity over the Cohen matter—Rachel Maddow announced she was struggling not to laugh—are fierce anti-Trump partisans who are also paid for their opinions. Maddow, for instance, said immediately after the president announced the airstrikes against Syria that the perception was that he was doing this to distract from domestic scandals—even as American and allied pilots were still risking their lives.

And those with whom Hannity has been feuding, such as Jimmy Kimmel, had a field day. Stephen Colbert reclined on a chair and sipped a glass of wine.

Some competitors want to make Hannity the face of Fox and ignore that the network has a thriving news division—one that, to take a recent example, produced Ed Henry's aggressive interview with EPA chief Scott Pruitt.

Certain pundits even offered baseless speculation that since Cohen was involved in payments to Stormy Daniels and a former Playboy model impregnated by a top RNC official, maybe he had provided similar services to Hannity. That was reckless and irresponsible.

Sometimes people in journalism, on the news or opinion side, find themselves covering folks with whom they have had friendships or professional dealings. If the relationship is serious enough, it may require recusal. If not, the best course is being transparent and disclosing it.

Hannity doesn't believe his friendship with Cohen rose to that level. But by making that choice, he gave his detractors ample ammunition against him.'He Does Not Respect Women': Andrew Cuomo Blasts Trump at Women's March Breakfast

Strassel Lists the Many Questions the Mainstream Media Won't Ask Comey

Relevant remarks begin around 8-minute mark.

Speaking to Al Sharpton's "National Action Network" conference in Manhattan, N.Y., Governor Andrew Cuomo ripped the Trump administration and questioned the intensity of the pro-Trump vote.

Cuomo, a Democrat from neighboring Queens, told the Midtown audience that Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would "lament what has happened in this federal administration."

He said the Trump White House is "extreme and conservative... because they won't compromise."

Gov. Cuomo 'Troubled' by NY Sheriff's Decision to Cooperate With ICE Enforcement

'Start With Me': NY Gov. Cuomo Dares Trump to Deport Him

"They want to take what they believe and impose it on you. That is not just anti-democratic, that is anti-American," Cuomo, who is running for a third term this year, said.

Cuomo said King would agree that President Donald Trump and his cabinet are "repugnant" and "anti-immigrant, anti-woman, anti-gun-safety, anti-equality, anti-environment [and] anti-inclusion."

Cuomo added that he's frustrated with the New York State Senate, where the Republicans hold a narrow majority. He said they refused to pass a law allowing criminals to vote while still on parole, adding that he soon will issue an executive order putting such a policy on the books.

Cuomo said Trump and the Republicans nationwide did not "win" the 2016 election, but that the Democrats "lost."

"I don't believe anyone ran into the voting booth saying 'I can't wait to vote for Mr. Trump. Boy I feel good about this!'."

He called Trump's economic platform a "fantasy" and said no nation's economy can successfully go "backward" - referencing the president's call to bring jobs "back" and go "back to the good old days."

Cuomo faces former "Sex & the City" star Cynthia Nixon from his political left in the gubernatorial primary.

Watch more above.

WATCH: Fox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

Former Clinton Aide: Comey Lied About Reopening Hillary Email Probe and 'He Knows It'Strassel Lists the Many Questions the Mainstream Media Won't Ask Comey

He's 'Dating Himself': Steyn Blasts 'Narcissistic' Comey for Likening Trump to Jilted Ex

A longtime Clinton confidant said Wednesday that fired FBI Director Jim Comey "lie[d] and he knows it" regarding the reason for reopening the Hillary Clinton email investigation days before the 2016 election

Lanny Davis said Comey acted in a partisan manner to hurt Hillary Clinton, which Harris Faulkner noted was the same type of accusation the right is firing at Comey.

"The inspector general should investigate James Comey for violating the rules of the Justice Department," Davis said.

Davis took issue with Comey's claim that he had to send a letter to Congress notifying them he was taking a second look at the email scandal late in October 2016.

"That's a lie and he knows it," he said, adding that if Comey took a closer look at the then-"new" emails prior to his announcement, he would have seen "there was nothing there."

Davis said if Comey had chosen that course of action, Clinton would have become president.

Harris Faulkner asked Davis whether people would be "shouting" about obstruction of justice if President Obama fired Comey, as Davis argued he should have done.

"Barack Obama should have fired him for hurting Hillary Clinton," said Davis, calling out Comey for admitting he sent the letter to cover himself politically, assuming she would win the election either way.

Watch the discussion above.

'He Held Her Hand All Day': George H.W. Bush by Barbara Bush's Side When She Passed

George W. Bush: Mom Was 'Needling' Me, Telling Jokes to Doctor in Final VisitWells Fargo Exec, Mom of 2 Died in Engine Explosion on Southwest Flight

Karl Rove said Wednesday that the decision by some Democrats to oppose the nomination of CIA Director Mike Pompeo to be secretary of state is "irresponsible stupidity."

Sen. Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee, said he will vote against the nomination partly because Pompeo did not disclose his recent trip to North Korea during his Senate confirmation hearing last week.

“I believe our nation’s top diplomat must be forthright, and more critically his past sentiments did not reflect our nation’s values and are not acceptable for our nation’s top diplomat,” Menendez said, with Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) also joining in opposition.

Rove said he hopes Menendez and Cardin rethink their positions, especially because Pompeo was confirmed as CIA director last year with broad support and is obviously qualified.

"This is not a good place for Washington to be," said Rove, who served as White House deputy chief of staff under George W. Bush.

He said Barack Obama's cabinet nominees were largely approved of by Republicans despite political disagreements. Rove said the opposition stems from an "impulse of rage against President Trump," rather than a true objection to his qualifications.

Trump offered strong backing for Pompeo in remarks Wednesday, saying, "I think Mike Pompeo is extraordinary. I think he'll go down as truly a great secretary of state."

Watch the discussion above and see Marc Thiessen's analysis of the Pompeo-Kim meeting.

McCaul: 'Very Disappointing' Gorsuch Sided With Liberal Justices in Key Immigration Vote

VIRAL: Fox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

'Lazy Cheap Shot': 'The Five' Responds to CA Gov. Jerry Brown's Attack on Fox NewsWhoopi Goldberg: Riots Over Trump Firing Mueller 'Would Be Fun to Watch'

Coulter: Cohen Raid Was Attempt By Mueller to Get Trump to Fire Him

Amid persistent speculation that President Trump could try to fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said that legislation designed to protect Mueller from being dismissed was "not necessary" and would not be brought to the Senate floor.

"There’s no indication that Mueller’s going to be fired," McConnell said on "Your World with Neil Cavuto" on Tuesday. "I don't think the president's going to do that, and just as a practical matter, even if we passed [the bill], why would he sign it?"

Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) slammed McConnell's decision, saying, "It's a mistake not to pass legislation to protect the investigation. We ought to head off a constitutional crisis at the pass, rather than waiting until it's too late."

Fox News contributor Katie Pavlich said Democrats aren't truly interested in avoiding a "constitutional crisis," but are more concerned with protecting their political talking point of possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.

"That's all they have at this point," Pavlich said on "Outnumbered" on Wednesday.

She said on the other side, some of President Trump's most ardent supporters want Mueller fired, so the issue has become a "political minefield."

Democratic political analyst Richard Fowler said Trump continues to "engage" by tweeting in opposition to the probe, calling it a "witch hunt." He argued that the legislation, even if it is not signed, will show that Congress stands in support of Mueller and future special counsels.

"If I was the president's lawyer, I'd say, if you don't think you did anything wrong, ignore it and continue being President of the United States."

Watch more discussion from "Outnumbered" above.

Geraldo: 'Firing Mueller Would Be Like Scratching a Rash'

Gingrich: Giving Mueller This Much Power 'Is a Threat to Every American'

Piers Morgan: Left Can't Prove Trump-Russia Collusion, So They're 'Moving the Goalposts'Gowdy: Comey Preaches 'Morality, Ethics & Truth' But Uses 'Relativism' to Rip Trump

'A Very Disappointing Display': Ken Starr Says Comey Has 'Dishonored' the FBI

As James Comey makes the media rounds to promote his new book, there are some questions that the mainstream media ask the former FBI director, according to Wall Street Journal columnist Kimberley Strassel.

On Monday and Tuesday, Strassel tweeted out 24 questions Comey should be asked in his interviews. She joined Laura Ingraham Tuesday night to run down some of the most pressing questions.

She said one of the top questions Comey needs to answer is: Did the FBI do any due diligence on Fusion GPS, the firm that hired former British counterintelligence agent Christoper Steele to compile the infamous anti-Trump dossier?

3)Did you know Mr. Steele had been hired by Fusion GPS? Did FBI do any due diligence on Fusion, and discover its long record of being hired to dirty the reputations of its clients' political foes? If not, why not? — Kimberley Strassel (@KimStrassel) April 16, 2018

"This is an organization that exists to smear the reputations of political opponents," Strassel said. "Did you not care that it was the Clinton campaign and the DNC that had paid for what is essentially opposition research?"

4)You say you knew dossier was funded by a "Democrat-aligned" group but you never knew which one. Why on earth not? Did FBI truly not care where info came from? Who was paying for it? Doesn't this go direct to source credibility? — Kimberley Strassel (@KimStrassel) April 16, 2018

She said she would also like to see Comey pressed on why he didn't inform President Trump that the dossier was funded by his political opponents.

Strassel said Comey should also answer questions about Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, the FBI officials caught sending anti-Trump text messages during the 2016 presidential election.

"Is this the kind of behavior that the FBI thinks is appropriate? Is it common behavior to have people sending messages like this? Does it concern you about the political bias?" she asked.

2) You've surely now read the Strzok-Page texts. Is this appropriate FBI behavior? Is this common FBI behavior? Can or how should the American public have confidence in a bureau that employs senior players with that behave in such a way? — Kimberley Strassel (@KimStrassel) April 17, 2018

She added that the Strzok-Page texts raise questions about the integrity of the Hillary Clinton email investigation and the Russia probe.

4)Given the duo's senior roles, and given clear text evidence that politics played a role in decisions (ie, how much manpower to use on Clinton investigation, given she might be "next president") how do reassure public of the integrity of either the Clinton or Trump probes? — Kimberley Strassel (@KimStrassel) April 17, 2018

Finally, she said Comey should be asked if former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe should be prosecuted for leaking to the press information related to the Clinton probe and then lying about it.

7)You have strong views on lying. The IG has now said McCabe lied, at least three times under oath. Should he be prosecuted? If not, how do you explain the double standard of FBI's treatment of average citizens, and treatment of its own? — Kimberley Strassel (@KimStrassel) April 17, 2018

Baier: There Are Many Questions Comey Hasn't Been Asked

Rep. Jordan: 'Double Standard' With Andrew McCabe 'Drives Americans Crazy'

Stormy Daniels Pressed on Whether Trump Affair Allegations Are a 'Publicity Stunt'Gowdy: Comey Preaches 'Morality, Ethics & Truth' But Uses 'Relativism' to Rip Trump

'A Very Disappointing Display': Ken Starr Says Comey Has 'Dishonored' the FBI

Former FBI Director James Comey took another shot at President Trump on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" Tuesday night when he compared Trump's tweets about him to a breakup with an ex.

“He’s tweeted at me probably 50 times. I’ve been gone for a year. I’m like a breakup he can’t get over,” Comey told Colbert. “I’m out there living my best life. He wakes up in the morning and tweets at me.”

Conservative author Mark Steyn reacted to Comey's comments on "Fox & Friends" on Wednesday, saying, "I think James Comey is dating himself."

"He's basically in love with himself," Steyn said, adding that he doesn't understand how someone as self-centered, narcissistic and psychologically unfit as Comey ever became director of the FBI.

Comey, who was fired by Trump in May 2017, is in the midst of a media blitz to promote his new book, “A Higher Loyalty.”

Trump has responded to Comey's book and interviews with a series of tweets, calling him a "slime ball" and declaring it was his "great honor to fire James Comey."

James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR. Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired. He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted. He lied to Congress under OATH. He is a weak and..... — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

....untruthful slime ball who was, as time has proven, a terrible Director of the FBI. His handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case, and the events surrounding it, will go down as one of the worst “botch jobs” of history. It was my great honor to fire James Comey! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 13, 2018

Slippery James Comey, the worst FBI Director in history, was not fired because of the phony Russia investigation where, by the way, there was NO COLLUSION (except by the Dems)! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Steyn said if any other presidential candidate won the election -- from Hillary Clinton to Jeb Bush to Bernie Sanders -- they would have immediately fired Comey, who he described as "a self-obsessed, narcissistic dork."

"The real question here is why Obama didn't fire Comey."

Watch Comey's full "Late Show" interview below.

Baier: There Are Many Questions Comey Hasn't Been Asked

Rep. Jordan: 'Double Standard' With Andrew McCabe 'Drives Americans Crazy'

Stormy Daniels Pressed on Whether Trump Affair Allegations Are a 'Publicity Stunt''Lazy Cheap Shot': 'The Five' Responds to CA Gov. Jerry Brown's Attack on Fox News

Ingraham: Dems 'More Interested in Growing Voter Rolls' Than Illegal Immigrant Crime Victims

Fox News' Griff Jenkins confronted California Gov. Jerry Brown (D) over his state's sanctuary policy, and things got pretty heated.

The exchange occurred Tuesday at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., where Brown was making the case for California's sanctuary law, which limits cooperation between local law enforcement and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).

Jenkins -- after noting that San Diego County joined Orange County and more than a dozen cities in opposing the sanctuary policy -- asked Brown if the law "favors the rights of criminal illegal aliens over the rights and the safety of those communities."

Brown fired back that the question's premise was "absolutely false" and an "outlandish Fox proposition." He also claimed that President Trump's administration is "waging war on California."

There is a Revolution going on in California. Soooo many Sanctuary areas want OUT of this ridiculous, crime infested & breeding concept. Jerry Brown is trying to back out of the National Guard at the Border, but the people of the State are not happy. Want Security & Safety NOW! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Jenkins later pressed Brown on what he would say to the families of victims of criminal illegal aliens who say their loved ones would still be alive if California cooperated with federal immigration law.

"Let's be honest. There's a lot of politics in this on all sides," he said, accusing Fox News of "exploiting" the issue of illegal immigrants committing crimes.

He also said "no law is perfect" and that he hopes lawsuits by cities and towns opposed to the law will help "clarify" the statute.

"With all due respect, I want to protect people," Brown said, muttering "Fox nonsense" as he walked away.

Jenkins joined Heather Childers on "Fox & Friends First" to react to the testy exchange and the escalating sanctuary battle.

"It was a moment perhaps he missed by not reaching out to his citizens who feel that they have been wronged and, of course, the families of those victims that see this as a problem that is not being addressed properly," he said.

Jenkins also highlighted a conversation with a California ICE field director, who said the Feb. 17 death of a six-year-old in Fullerton was preventable. Grace Aguilar was struck by a suspected drunk driver, Maximino Delgado Lagunas, who was released by local authorities after a 2015 DUI arrest.

The 50-year-old illegal immigrant had already been deported in 2001 and 2008.

Watch the clip above and see "The Five's" reaction to Brown's shot at Fox.

WATCH: Tucker Takes On Pro-Amnesty California GOP Congressman

Rep. Blackburn: 'Pres. Trump Is 'Going to Win' Fight Against CA Sanctuary Law

3 More California Cities Vote to Opt Out of State's Sanctuary LawFox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

Fox News contributor Marc Thiessen expressed a skeptical view Wednesday about any potential deal between the United States and North Korea.

He said despite CIA Director Mike Pompeo's recent meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un and the potential formalization of the end of the Korean War, President Trump should have "very low expectations" for his upcoming summit with Kim.

Thiessen, a former speechwriter for President George W. Bush and a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, said he sees no chance of Kim agreeing to give up his nuclear weapons.

Mike Pompeo met with Kim Jong Un in North Korea last week. Meeting went very smoothly and a good relationship was formed. Details of Summit are being worked out now. Denuclearization will be a great thing for World, but also for North Korea! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

"He saw what happened to Muammar Qaddafi when he gave up his nuclear weapons. He saw what happened to Ukraine. He's not planning to be the third person to suffer from that. ... We need to go in with wide eyes open as to what he's trying to achieve," he explained on "America's Newsroom."

Thiessen warned that Kim's real goal is a reunification of the Koreas through a threat of force, while threatening U.S. cities via intercontinental ballistic missiles.

"He's trying to isolate the United States. He wants to come out of this summit with the U.S. to blame for the failure to reach an agreement or he wants to have a fake agreement, like his father had with Bill Clinton."

Watch his full analysis above.

'The Five' Responds to CA Gov. Jerry Brown's Attack on Fox News

George W. Bush: Mom Was 'Needling' Me, Telling Jokes to Doctor in Final Visit

'He Held Her Hand All Day': George H.W. Bush by Barbara Bush's Side When She PassedDana Perino: Barbara Bush Lived a 'Life of Great Consequence'

Hume: Barbara Bush 'A Woman of Enormous Character Who Adored Her Husband'

Former First Lady Barbara Bush passed away on Tuesday at the age of 92, leaving behind her husband of 73 years, former President George H.W. Bush.

Jean Becker, chief of staff at the Office of George H.W. Bush, said in a statement that the 41st president held his wife's hand all day and was by her side when she passed.

Jean Becker, chief of staff at the Office of George H. W. Bush, gave this update on the 41st President of the United States. pic.twitter.com/pjOKi3szVc — Jim McGrath (@jgm41) April 18, 2018

“He held her hand all day today and was at her side when [she] left this good earth,” the statement read. “Obviously, this is a very challenging time. But it will not surprise all of you who know and love him, that he also is being stoic and strong, and is being lifted up by his large and supportive family."

On "America's Newsroom," Brit Hume recalled that every time he saw George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush, they were holding hands.

"The closeness of that relationship was something to behold," Hume said. "It was a marriage I think that set an example for the country: old-fashioned values, older people committed to one another for a very long period of time, with an exceptional family around them."

Read Bush 41's Touching, Decades-Old Letter to Then-Fiancée Barbara

Bush Sisters Share Memories of 'Living History' in White House

PHOTOS: Bush 41 Made a Surprise Appearance at His Old Prep SchoolDana Perino: Barbara Bush Lived a 'Life of Great Consequence'

Hume: Barbara Bush 'A Woman of Enormous Character Who Adored Her Husband'

Former First Lady Barbara Bush had her trademark sense of humor until the very end, her son revealed to Maria Bartiromo Wednesday.

The matriarch of the Bush family died Tuesday at age 92, but former President George W. Bush said his mother was "strong, lucid and funny," in her final days, as she was surrounded by her family.

Bush then shared a light moment from his final visit with his mother.

"She and I were needling each other. The doctor came in and she turned to the doctor and said, 'You want to know why George W. is the way he is?' The doctor looked somewhat surprised and she said, 'Because I drank and smoked while I was pregnant with him.' ... She's funny," said the 43rd President of the United States alongside former First Lady Laura Bush.

President Bush said the mother of six truly believed she would be "wonderfully received in the arms of a loving God" and did not fear death.

"As a result of her soul being comforted on the deathbed, my soul is comforted," said Bush.

"She was funny and fierce and said her mind," said Laura Bush.

American Love Story: Barbara Bush and George H.W. Bush were joined in matrimony longer than any other presidential couple in American history. https://t.co/OdhHnFx1Pk pic.twitter.com/9TCXieT408 — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 18, 2018

Barbara Bush passed while holding the hand of her husband of 73 years, former President George H.W. Bush, according to his longtime chief of staff.

Jean Becker described the 41st president as "broken-hearted" over the loss.

Watch the clip above and see more of the interview on FoxBusiness.com.

Read Bush 41's Touching, Decades-Old Letter to Then-Fiancée Barbara

Bush Sisters Share Memories of 'Living History' in White House

PHOTOS: Bush 41 Made a Surprise Appearance at His Old Prep SchoolWATCH: Fox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

Hannity: Media 'Frauds' Attacking Me 'Nothing More Than Extension of Dem Party'

Fox News correspondent and former Navy pilot Lea Gabrielle praised Southwest Airlines pilot Tammie Jo Shults for landing a Boeing 737 Tuesday after one of its engines exploded at 32,000 feet.

Investigators probing the incident said metal fatigue may be responsible for the engine explosion, which shattered a window in the aircraft and led to a passenger being "partially sucked out."

Jennifer Riordan, a New Mexico businesswoman and mother of two, was pronounced dead at a Pennsylvania hospital after the plane made an emergency landing at Philadelphia International Airport around 11:20 a.m. ET.

Shults, a former Navy pilot, is being credited with calmly guiding the damaged plane safely to the ground and preventing an even worse tragedy.

"In this particular situation, she obviously took very quick command and made very quick decisions, because this was an extremely complex emergency," Gabrielle said on "America's Newsroom."

She explained that Shults and her co-pilot first had to deal with a rapid loss of cabin pressurization, which meant getting their oxygen masks on and quickly descending to 10,000 feet, so they and the passengers could breath normally when their oxygen ran out.

Bill Hemmer pointed out that Shults is an ace pilot, having previously been one of the first female fighter pilots in U.S. military history, including flying F/A-18 Super Hornets.

"It could have been catastrophic. It really could have. And it sounds like she made extremely decisive actions," Gabrielle said, recalling that she experienced engine failures while flying Super Hornets.

We love women in aviation! Tammie Jo Shults, one of the pilots responsible for landing the Southwest Airlines flight 1380 that experienced an engine explosion. She was one of the first women pilots in the Navy and first women to fly the F-18 fighter jet. #womeninaviation pic.twitter.com/6bJgO6caZ1 — Pacific Aviation Museum Pearl Harbor (@PacificAviation) April 18, 2018

"Listening to [her] voice on the radio. That's the way Navy pilots are trained to behave, to stay calm -- your first step should be a deep breath -- and then just very cerebrally go through those emergency action items."

Wells Fargo Exec, Mom of 2 Died in Engine Explosion on Southwest Flight

George W. Bush: Mom Was 'Needling' Me, Telling Jokes to Doctor in Final VisitFox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

A Wells Fargo executive from New Mexico was identified as the passenger who was killed Tuesday when the engine of a Southwest Airlines jet exploded mid-flight.

Jennifer Riordan, an Albuquerque native, was partially sucked out of the window that was blown out by shrapnel from the explosion aboard Flight 1380.

Two passengers raced to Riordan's seat and pulled her back in, but she did not survive her injuries aboard the Boeing twin-engine 737.

"We got her pulled in and they tried to resuscitate her," recalled Tim McGinty, one of the passengers.

Riordan, a 43-year-old mother of two, was on her way home from a business trip to New York.

“The Wells Fargo family is saddened to learn of the death of our friend and colleague Jennifer Riordan – a Community Relations leader in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She was a well-known leader who was loved and respected. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends. Out of respect for the family and their privacy, we’ve nothing more to share at this time," the bank said in a statement.

#BREAKING: We've learned an Albuquerque woman died when a Southwest Airlines jet apparently blew an engine at about 30,000 feet, causing shrapnel to smash a window and damage the fuselage.https://t.co/LV27fBhbTQ — KOB 4 (@KOB4) April 17, 2018

Southwest CEO Gary Kelly said there were no problems with the plane or its engine when it was inspected on Sunday.

The National Transportation Safety Board said "metal fatigue" may have caused one of the engine's fan blades to come off.

Former Navy pilot Tammie Jo Shults is being applauded for her deft maneuvering of the aircraft after the explosion at 30,000 feet, landing the plane in Philadelphia.

Watch the "America's Newsroom" report above.

'The Five' Responds to CA Gov. Jerry Brown's Attack on Fox News

'He Held Her Hand All Day': George H.W. Bush by Barbara Bush's Side When She PassedWATCH: Fox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

Tucker Takes On Pro-Amnesty California GOP Congressman

Rep. Michael McCaul (R-Texas) said it's "very disappointing" that Justice Neil Gorsuch provided the decisive vote Tuesday in a Supreme Court ruling striking down a key provision that made it easier to deport immigrants convicted of violent crimes.

Gorsuch agreed with his liberal colleagues that a clause in federal law allowing the deportation of foreigners found guilty of "a crime of violence" is unconstitutional because it is overly vague.

The decision is a loss for Trump's administration and comes amid an ongoing focus on immigration by President Trump.

Trump tweeted a response Tuesday evening, calling on the House and Senate to pass a legislative fix "to ensure violent criminal aliens can be removed from our society."

....Congress – House and Senate must quickly pass a legislative fix to ensure violent criminal aliens can be removed from our society. Keep America Safe! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 17, 2018

On "America's Newsroom" on Wednesday, McCaul said Gorsuch, Trump's Supreme Count pick, has made it more difficult to deport criminal illegal aliens.

He said the court's decision reinforces the importance of his proposed legislation, the Securing America’s Future Act, which bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes reforms to legal immigration programs, secures the border and provides a legislative solution for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program.

"I think it just puts more urgency on Congress to act now, to get this bill passed in the Congress and signed into law," McCaul said. "Time is not on our side, and the clock's ticking."

'The Five' Responds to CA Gov. Jerry Brown's Attack on Fox News

Rep. Blackburn: 'Pres. Trump Is 'Going to Win' Fight Against CA Sanctuary Law

3 More California Cities Vote to Opt Out of State's Sanctuary LawAs a passenger started to get sucked out of the shattered window on Southwest Flight 1380, two men nearby quickly jumped in to help.

The Dallas-bound Southwest Airlines flight was 32,500 feet over Pennsylvania after taking off from New York's LaGuardia Airport when the plane's engine blew apart, causing shrapnel to shatter the window and sending Jennifer Riordan, seated nearby, flying out of the aircraft.

"Some heroes wear capes, but mine wears a cowboy hat." - Kristin McGinty

Tim McGinty told FOX4 he tried to pull Riordan back in the plane -- but couldn't do it alone.

“The engine went out and had a lady go out the window, and we couldn’t pull her in,” McGinty said. “A guy helped, we got her pulled in. They tried to resuscitate her."

McGinty's wife, Kristin, told USA Today her husband was helped by firefighter Andrew Needum of Celina, Texas, and the men were finally able to get Riordan back in the plane.

"My husband loves God and believes our purpose here is to love fiercely and to serve others," she told the paper. "Some heroes wear capes, but mine wears a cowboy hat."

Another passenger on the flight, Sheri Sears, said in a Facebook post that Needum helped to perform CPR on Riordan, a New Mexico businesswoman, to try to save her.

"I have never been so scared in my life," Sears wrote. "Thank you all that prayed for us. I had the opportunity to witness what putting others first truly meant! Tim McGinty and Andrew dug deep and pulled Jennifer back in the plane. To watch Peggy the RN and Andrew the fireman perform CPR while experiencing this nightmare, wow!"

But even despite the heroic efforts, Riordan was pronounced dead at a Pennsylvania hospital after Flight 1380 made an emergency landing at Philadelphia International Airport around 11:20 a.m.

The investigation of the engine failure is now focusing on whether wear and tear -- metal fatigue -- caused a fan blade to snap off, triggering the catastrophic chain of events.

SOUTHWEST AIRLINES PASSENGER MOURNED AS PLANE ENGINE THAT EXPLODED SHOWED EVIDENCE OF 'METAL FATIGUE'

When investigators from the National Transportation Safety Board examined the broken engine in Philadelphia just hours after it made an emergency landing, they immediately saw that one of the left engine's 24 fan blades was missing.

"This fan blade was broken right at the hub, and our preliminary examination of this was there is evidence of metal fatigue where the blade separated," said NTSB chairman Robert Sumwalt.

Metal fatigue is a weakening of metal from repeated use and involves microscopic cracks. It can occur in fan blades, the aluminum skin on most planes, or other metal parts.

Investigators will focus on whether the fan blade broke off at cruising speed — around 500 mph — and started an "uncontained" engine failure that sent debris flying like shrapnel into the plane, where it broke a window.

Fox News' Kathleen Joyce and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Investigators probing the death of the "remarkable" mother of two who was "partially sucked out" the window of a Southwest Airlines flight Tuesday said metal fatigue may be responsible for the engine explosion that burst the window next to Jennifer Riordan's seat.

Fellow passengers tried in vain to save Riordan, a New Mexico businesswoman, and were able to pull her back into the jet. But she was pronounced dead at a Pennsylvania hospital after Flight 1380 made an emergency landing at Philadelphia International Airport around 11:20 a.m.

Former ace Navy pilot Tammie Jo Shults was identified as being the "American hero" who guided the damaged plane safely to the ground.

Shults calmly radioed news of the mangled engine to air traffic controllers from the cockpit.

“We have a part of the aircraft missing, so we’re going to need to slow down a bit," Schults said, according to Reuters.

But the pilot's steady tone and skilled maneuvering was in direct contrast to the chaos enveloping the passenger cabin behind her.

One person reported there was "blood everywhere," while passenger Joe Marcus said it "felt like we were just falling from the sky."

Images soon emerged of the smashed out window next to which Riordan was apparently seated.

Riordan worked as a vice president of community relations for Wells Fargo, and was a graduate of the University of New Mexico. A close friend of Riordan told KOB that the mother of two, who was married to Michael Riordan, who served until recently as the chief operating officer for the city of Albuquerque, "never forgot the [New Mexico Broadcasters Association] and supported the foundation however she could." The friend added that "Jennifer was a remarkable mother and part of the NMBA family."

"Jennifer's vibrancy, passion and love infused our community and reached across our country. Her impact on everything and everyone she touched can never be fully measured," a family statement, published by WFAA-TV, read. She was further described as "the bedrock of our family."

As the search for the cause of the calamity continued, National Transportation Safety Board chairman Robert Sumwalt said one of the engine’s fan blades was separated and missing. The blade was separated at the point where it would come into the hub and there was evidence of "metal fatigue," Sumwalt said.

Sumwalt said part of the engine was found in Bernville, Pa., about 70 miles from Philadelphia’s airport.

The engine will need to be further examined to understand what caused the failure, the NTSB said. The examination was expected to take 12 to 15 months.

Meanwhile, Bill English, the NTSB’s lead investigator, said he has obtained the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder from the flight that are being sent to the agency’s headquarters in Washington, D.C. for download. It was not immediately clear when the transcripts would be made available.

Southwest CEO Gary Kelly said there were no problems with the plane or its engine when it was inspected on Sunday.

The jet's CFM56-7B engines were made by CFM International, jointly owned by General Electric and Safran Aircraft Engines of France. CFM said in a statement that the CFM56-7B has had "an outstanding safety and reliability record" since its debut in 1997.

The Federal Aviation Administration is expected to inspect CFM56-7B engines shortly following the incident.

Fox News' Nicole Darrah and Bradford Betz and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Hillary Clinton, well over a year after she lost the 2016 election to President Trump, is less popular than ever, according to a poll released this week.

Only 27 percent of those polled had a very or somewhat positive view of the former secretary of state, according to The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll. That makes her less popular than President Trump, whose popularity registered at 35 percent. It is a new low for her in the poll, which clocked her popularity at 30 percent in August 2017.



A Journal analysis of the poll notes that the poll is a reminder of “just how unusual” Clinton is in terms of her unpopularity -- even among recent losing presidential nominees who have typically experienced a post-election decline, but not to the extent Clinton has. At the time of the election, 40 percent had a positive view of her.



While Clinton and Trump now both have similar levels of unpopularity (52 and 53 percent, respectively), her lower positive rating means Clinton’s favorability gap is wider. Trump, meanwhile, has faced a rocky first year as president overshadowed by constant controversies including a wide-ranging investigation by FBI Special Counsel Robert Mueller.



Clinton has stayed on the political stage. She has set up the political action organization Onward Together and released a lengthy campaign post-mortem titled, “What Happened.” She went on a speaking tour coinciding with the book's release and has made numerous additional appearances discussing her 2016 loss.



Yet the scandals that dogged her throughout the campaign have not gone away. The question of her email use when she served as secretary of state is still in the spotlight as the FBI’s handling of the probe itself is under scrutiny. And Trump has continued to launch the occasional attack on his former election rival.

This week, Trump used former FBI Director James Comey’s book launch to again call Clinton “crooked.”



“[Comey’s] handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case, and the events surrounding it, will go down as one of the worst 'botch jobs' of history,” he tweeted.



Earlier this month, Clinton said in a speech that she was focused on the upcoming midterm elections.



“My goal is to take back the House and the Senate,” she said.Brewer: 'Absolutely Irresponsible' to Refuse Trump's National Guard Order

Former Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) was skeptical of the 2016 meeting of former Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton on a tarmac in Arizona, saying that nothing adds up as to why the meeting could take place.

The meeting occurred while Hillary Clinton was being investigated for her use of a private email server while secretary of state, raising questions of possible collusion between the Justice Department and the Clintons.

"Why is it that the attorney general had an extra 30, 45 minutes on her schedule? For them to just say it was impromptu, an accidental meeting, really doesn't add up," he said.

In an interview with NBC, Lynch said she and the former president only discussed “innocuous things," and that Hillary Clinton was not among the topics.

Chaffetz noted the timing of events that played out following the meeting, regarding the Clinton email probe and the former first lady's ultimate exoneration.

"You have, in rapid succession: tarmac meeting, interview of Hillary Clinton -- without the notes, not under oath -- and then that's all followed by this exoneration. It makes no sense," he said.

Comey will release a book on April 17 about the Clinton investigation, as well as allegations of ties between Russia and Donald Trump’s presidential campaign.

Former NYPD Officer Dan Bongino said Monday that "Loretta Lynch should be talking to a lawyer and so should Jim Comey."

He said both could have "very serious criminal liability" for possibly interfering in the probe into Clinton's private email server and her mishandling of classified information.

Watch the segment above.

Fitton: DOJ Still in 'Cover-Up Mode' on Lynch-Clinton Tarmac Meeting

Bongino: Lynch, Comey Could Face Obstruction Charges for Handling of Clinton Email Probe

Judge Jeanine: It's Time for Republicans to Start Wielding PowerRumors spread by left-leaning groups alleging President Trump will fire special counsel Robert Mueller have begun prompting official action, with Pittsburgh’s police department preparing for an eventuality the commander-in-chief has said will never come.

Pittsburgh Police Commander Victor Joseph sent out an email to officers Wednesday saying “there is a belief that President Trump will soon move to fire Special Prosecutor Mueller,” which “would result in a large protest within 24 hours of the firing.

“Based on this information, beginning tomorrow, April 19, 2018 all Major Crimes detectives are required to bring a full uniform and any issued protective equipment (riot gear) with them to work until further notice,” the message added.

Joseph said the protest could happen in the city’s Central Business District. It was not clear how Pittsburgh police reached their “belief” that Trump would fire Mueller soon.

The WTAE reporter who broke news of the email said she confirmed the order with Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto. Peduto said the preparations were only precautionary.

“The Pittsburgh Bureau of Police receives information daily that we evaluate and prepare for if the event should occur. Events can include anything from extreme weather to potential demonstrations,” Pittsburgh Public Safety Director Wendell Hissrich told Fox News.

“Often the events we prepare for do not occur. However, through an abundance of caution, we attempt to adequately prepare for an appropriate response,” he continued. “We receive information regularly about potential events and/or threats, assess the credibility of the information and plan for a potential event. In this case, we have not assessed the credibility of the potential for disturbances, and we do not have any knowledge of the President’s decision-making process.”

The alarming message came just hours after Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., told Fox News legislation designed to protect Mueller -- who is investigating alleged contacts between Russian officials and Trump's campaign -- from being dismissed by Trump was "not necessary" and would not be brought to the Senate floor.

"There’s no indication that Mueller’s going to be fired," McConnell told "Your World with Neil Cavuto." "I don't think the president's going to do that and just as a practical matter, even if we passed [the bill], why would he sign it?"

The Senate Judiciary Committee is scheduled to vote later this month on a measure that would enshrine in law Justice Department regulations saying a special counsel can only be fired for good cause and by a senior Justice Department official.

"I’m the one who decides what [legislation] we take to the floor," McConnell said. "That's my responsibility as the majority leader. We’ll not be having this on the floor of the Senate."

But despite Trump and McConnell's protests, liberal groups aren't the only ones riling up the base. Last week, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., sent out an email titled “Mueller FIRED” that asked people to donate to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee amid speculations that Trump may ax Mueller in retaliation for the FBI raid on Trump's lawyer, Michael Cohen.

But as the actual fundraiser email text acknowledges, Mueller was not fired by Trump.

"I’m so furious I can barely write this email,” Pelosi wrote, according to The Washington Examiner. “President Trump is inches away from firing Robert Mueller and derailing the entire Russia investigation.”

The fundraising email was sent on Friday, just a day after Trump reiterated he isn’t going to fire the special counsel.

Fox News' Lukas Mikelionis and Samuel Chamberlain contributed to this report.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi is fundraising off the firing of “our only hope” Special Counsel Robert Mueller, but one problem: Mueller has not been fired.

The California Democrat sent out an email last week titled “Mueller FIRED” and asked people to donate to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) amid speculations that President Donald Trump may fire Mueller in retaliation for the FBI raid on his lawyer Michael Cohen.

But as the actual fundraiser email text acknowledges, Mueller was not fired by Trump.

"I’m so furious I can barely write this email,” Pelosi wrote, according to The Washington Examiner. “President Trump is inches away from firing Robert Mueller and derailing the entire Russia investigation.”

The fundraising email was sent on Friday, just a day after Trump reiterated that he isn’t going to fire the special counsel.

“If I wanted to fire Robert Mueller in December, as reported by the Failing New York Times, I would have fired him. Just more Fake News from a biased newspaper!” Trump tweeted.

Still, the Democratic leader went on to accuse her Republican colleagues of “actively helping” Trump to ruin the investigation into the alleged collusion between Trump and the Kremlin and asks for money to “kick each and every one of them out of office.”

“[Republicans are] jeopardizing our democracy, our national security, and the safety of every election we hold. Frankly, they can’t be trusted,” she added.

Pelosi described Mueller as “our only hope for justice” and claims only Democrats “can protect him."

The odd email drew criticism on social media. “The DCCC's subject lines may not have contributed to the fake news crisis, but damned if they help,” tweeted Vox reporter Dara Lind.

“Who at the @dccc thought this clickbait email subject line was a good idea?” seconded Garrett Haake, a correspondent at liberal MSNBC.The grieving family of an Ohio teen who was crushed to death in a minivan last week stormed out of a meeting with Cincinnati leaders Tuesday, with the boy's uncle scolding a councilmember and angrily shouting the man had "crossed the line."

Kyle Plush's family sat in the front row for five hours as city leaders, including law enforcement officials, detailed issues with the 911 center while hearing testimony from current and former employees, according to FOX19.

But it was at the end of the meeting, when Councilman Wendell Young attempted to summarize the hours-long discussion as "everything that could possibly go wrong went wrong," that members of the Plush family erupted.

"I suspect that there will be attempts to do what the law allows to be done to try to, in some way, to make up for what happened with you. But there's no amount of money that's going to make you happy," Young said.

His next sentence was cut short by Kyle's father, Ron Plush, who yelled, "This isn't about money," while wiping tears off his face, FOX19 reported.

The councilman kept speaking, saying "I believe that there's no amount of blame that's going to make the situation better. So I think at the end..." before Kyle's uncle stood up, cut him off and began shouting.

"You know what, stop this right here," he said. "This is the most insensitive thing I've ever heard! You guys were doing wonderful 'til this guy started talking. I'm tired. You've crossed the line! You have crossed the line."

Young later apologized to Plush's family, telling FOX19 that it "was never my intent" to offend them.

"Sometimes it’s not so much of what you say, it’s where you say it," Young said. "Their feelings are still very, very raw. For a moment I forgot to take that into consideration so I am really, really sorry that I hurt them.”

Earlier in the evening, Cincinnati Mayor John Cranley said the city owes Kyle's family an explanation for why police and the city's 911 system failed to save him.

911 SYSTEM IN TRAPPED OHIO TEEN CASE MAY HAVE CRASHED BEFORE CALL, OFFICIAL SAYS

“I feel blame personally, and I think we all should," he said. "Regardless of who’s at fault. Things didn’t go the way they were supposed to go and that is on us. I’ve said it to the family and let me say it again: 'I'm sorry.'"

Plush suffocated after he became trapped under the third-row seat that flipped and pinned him while he was trying to reach his tennis equipment. The teenager told 911 operators where he was located, but authorities were not able to find him. A deputy sent to the scene soon after called in to report that he couldn’t find anyone trapped in a van, and questioned if the call had been a prank.

Police said Amber Smith, the 911 operator who answered Plush’s second call, failed to relay information to the additional officers who were at the scene.

During the call, Plush explained to Smith the call was not a joke.

"I am trapped inside my gold Honda Odyssey van in the parking lot of the Seven Hills...Send officers immediately," Plush pleaded. "I’m almost dead.”

Smith, who has been a 911 operator for four years, will return to work on Wednesday but will not answer emergency calls while an internal investigation is under way. She told supervisors her computer froze and she was unable to put information into the system. She also told her supervisors she didn't hear the teenager, according to a police quality review report obtained by FOX19.

During the meeting on Tuesday, current and former employees of the 911 center listed ongoing problems with the computer-aided dispatch system, and described the workplace as a "toxic" environment with staffing down 50 percent at times.

"We just started it in January, so like I said it's just, sometimes it’s hard to hear," dispatcher Beth Radigan said.

911 DISPATCHER WHO ANSWERED CALL FROM BOY CRUSHED BY MINIVAN SEAT COMPLAINED ABOUT JOB DAYS BEFORE INCIDENT

When asked if she had trouble hearing before this new system, Radigan replied, "Not that I can recall, but again each call is different, sometimes you don't hear cell phones."

The day that Plush died the CAD system was down, forcing dispatchers to use a backup system, Radigan told councilmembers.

Councilmembers said they will continue to work with employees to learn exactly what happened the day Plush died, and that nothing like this can ever happen again.

"I'm saying we have a problem. Let's acknowledge it out loud and then we can ultimately put a plan together," Vice Mayor Christopher Smitherman said.

Fox News’ Kathleen Joyce and Madeline Fish contributed to this report.Following his impersonation as special counsel Robert Mueller on the latest episode of “Saturday Night Live,” actor Robert De Niro says that he hopes the gag role won’t be his last.

Speaking on NBC’s “Today” show, the 74 year old actor reflected on his appearance in the show’s cold open this week. In it, he portrayed Mueller giving a lie detector test to Donald Trump’s lawyer Michael Cohen, played by his “Meet the Parents’ co-star Ben Stiller. The bit was typical for the late-night sketch show, but the two stars guest appearances were a surprise.

When asked directly by NBC’s Craig Melvin if he’d be the show’s new regular Mueller impersonator, the star gave a candid answer.

“I hope there’s a couple where I interrogate [Trump], I arrest him, and then I take him to jail,” he said.

The star clarified that he was talking about the president, but mentioned that he would also love to be portrayed throwing Cohen in prison as well. De Niro has been unusually politically active with regards to his dissent of the Trump administration, a stance he defended on “Today.”

“I have never been this active,” De Niro said. “But when I see what’s going on with this guy, you have no choice but to be active. It’s past the point of being passive. People have to speak out. They have to speak out over and over and over again. This guy, this administration, is beyond belief. It has to stop.”

De Niro, co-founder of the Tribeca Film Festival, had more to say about Trump while promoting this year's event. At a ickoff luncheon for the festival Wednesday, he referred to Trump as "our Lowlife-in-Chief" and said he "wouldn't recognize the truth if it came inside a bucket of his beloved Colonel Sanders Fried Chicken."

As previously reported, the star hasn’t been shy about voicing his disapproval of Trump in less-than-respectful terms. In February, the star claimed that the entire country is suffering “temporary” insanity at a World Government Summit in Dubai.

In March, he commented on Trump’s upbringing, noting that he had to overcome being “rich and spoiled… and endure the heartbreak of bone spurs.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.ABC News star Lara Spencer’s workload at “Good Morning America” is about to be significantly lightened. The morning show vet is reportedly furiously spinning the story to make it look like she's fine with her reduced role, while some ABC insiders don't care how the new development came about, they're just happy it's happening.

Spencer is notoriously difficult to work with and “screams at her producers daily,” according to insiders. She is also said to have been enraged when her name was removed from the “GMA” cold open (the moment at the top of the show when an announcer reads the names of the show’s hosts) and when publicity photos and advertisements for ABC’s flagship morning show excluded her by only featuring Robin Roberts, George Stephanopoulos and Michael Strahan — in particular one such poster on a bus stop outside ABC News’ Upper West Side offices.

Sources tell Fox News that Spencer has also gone through multiple make-up artists and engaged in a months-long feud with Roberts about the size of their respective dressing rooms in ABC’s Times Square studio.

Yet while some staffers are all smiles about the news, others are in Spencer’s corner and see the move as a legit opportunity for her to focus on her expanding media brand. One ABC insider even felt the decision to exclude Spencer from the specific billboard was a “heartless” move by the network.

“They posted it right there so it would be in her face every day when she comes to work,” the insider said.

The ABC move could be the impetus that Spencer needed to refocus her priorities, as she also hosts HGTV’s “Flea Market Flip,” and People magazine reported that she will concentrate on the lifestyle brand attached to the bargain-hunting program. Spencer is reportedly working on several other projects in addition to “Flea Market Flip,” which tapes several days per week.

Spencer will now reportedly only co-host “GMA” three times per week, instead of appearing alongside Roberts, Stephanopoulos and Strahan on a daily basis. People magazine reported on Sunday that the decision was made by Spencer, saying she wants to focus on other opportunities related to her production company.

An ABC spokesperson told Fox News it is “complete nonsense” that Spencer was upset about the promotional photos.

But industry insiders told the New York Post that Spencer’s team leaked the story to give the appearance that she is in favor of the cut back. “GMA" wants to trim down to focus on its three biggest stars. Among those cast aside are Spencer and her longtime rival, Amy Robach, a breast cancer survivor whose second husband is Andrew Shue, who played Billy Campbell on “Melrose Place.”

'They posted it right there so it would be in her face every day when she comes to work' - ABC insider on the 'GMA' poster outside the network HQ

Robach is expected to be named co-host of the declining ABC News magazine “20/20,” replacing the highly compensated Elizabeth Vargas, who was pushed out due to cost-cutting, ABC insiders told Fox News.

As for Spencer, the New York Post reported she is “frantically” trying to shift public perception when she is actually being “quietly sidelined” by the show’s producers.

“Lara’s good at her job,” an insider told the Post, “but it’s not like the [ratings] are affected when she’s not on [the show].”

An ABC News spokesperson provided the following statement: “This is ridiculous. She is the ultimate team player. Lara decided to cut back her hours on 'GMA' to focus on her production company.”

Page Six TV’s Carlos Greer echoed the ABC spokesperson, saying on Tuesday that Spencer “was a great mentor” when they worked together.

While Spencer and ABC brass bicker about who made the decision, rank and file staffers don’t seem to care either way as long as it results in a better work environment amid what some call an “utterly toxic” atmosphere that also features infighting between Strahan and Roberts — who are said not to speak to each other on the “GMA” set during commercial breaks.

“There is another side to me that is a stone-cold businesswoman,” Spencer told TheWrap last year. It appears that some colleagues are aware of Spencer’s icy alter-ego.

“The ‘GMA’ people are thrilled she’s being pushed out. She’s a bully and a blamer,” an ABC News insider told Fox News.

'This is ridiculous. She is the ultimate team player. Lara decided to cut back her hours on 'GMA' to focus on her production company' - ABC News rep

“Staff are relieved that Lara’s schedule is being cut back,” an industry insider told the New York Post. “She treats staff badly, she yells at people and she makes a lot of extra work for people.”

The People feature also pointed to Spencer’s upcoming wedding as a reason to dial back her “GMA” appearances, as she is set to marry her tech entrepreneur boyfriend Rick McVey three years after her public divorce with former CNN reporter turned real estate agent David Haffenreffer — the father of her two children -- became tabloid gossip.

CBS’ “The Talk” took a shot at Spencer on Tuesday, tweeting that ABC staffers are reportedly happy about her reduced role and asking, “What’s the worst workplace treatment you’ve ever witnessed?”

This is not the first time that rumors have swirled about Spencer’s on-set behavior. Back in 2014, Radar Online detailed “cat fighting” between Spencer and Robach.

“Among the gripes Amy has with Lara is that she shamelessly flirts with the male staff and guests. It’s cringe-worthy, according to Amy, and she hates to see it,” an insider told Radar Online.

The gossip site also reported that Robach and Spencer were once forced by “GMA” brass to share a meal together in a “calculated PR ploy” after ABC went into “crisis mode” when rumors of the infighting hit tabloids.A blackout that affected the entire island of Puerto Rico on Wednesday was caused by a transmission line inadvertently taken out by an excavator, officials said.

The transmission line was accidentally hit by the excavator while a private contractor was working to take out a collapsed tower during ongoing power restoration efforts in the U.S. territory, Justo Gonzalez, executive sub director of Puerto Rico’s Electric Power Authority, said.

The region was already suffering from an unstable power grid following Hurricane Maria, which barreled into the island seven months ago.

Officials said earlier Wednesday that it could take 24 to 36 hours to fully restore power.

DOWNED TREE IN PUERTO RICO KNOCKS OUT POWER TO ALMOST A MILLION CUSTOMERS

The first priority for restoration efforts included powering up hospitals, airports, banking centers and water pumping systems, officials said. The island’s largest hospital and main international airport maintained power through backup generators. After that, officials said they would focus on bringing power to businesses and homes.

By the afternoon, power had been restored to five hospitals, Power Authority officials said, including the Cardiovascular Center, the Medical Sciences Campus, the Pediatric Medical Center, the San Pablo Hospital and the El Maestro Hospital.

More than 800,000 people on the island also experienced an outage last week, after a tree collapsed onto a power line.

Fredyson Martinez, vice president of a union representing power company workers in Puerto Rico, told The Associated Press that the two back-to-back outages were concerning.

"That is not normal," he said.

HURRICANE NAMES HARVEY, IRMA, MARIA AND NATE NOW ‘OFFICIALLY RETIRED’

The outage is not expected to affect a major league baseball game being held on the island tonight, San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz said. The emergency systems are functioning properly at Hiram Bithorn stadium, set to host the Cleveland Indians and the Minnesota Twins. And the mayor said extra generators will be brought in and there will be additional security.

This is the first time the island has experienced a full island-wide blackout since the Category 4 storm hit on Sept. 20.

Fox News’ Bryan Llenas and The Associated Press contributed to this report.A jury in New York found Manhattan nanny Yoselyn Ortega guilty Wednesday of killing two children in 2012.

Ortega was accused of killing 6-year-old Lulu Krim and her 2-year-old brother, Leo, on Oct. 25, 2012. The children’s mother, Marina Krim, said she found them dead in the bathroom of the apartment.

The little girl was stabbed more than 30 times, while her brother was stabbed five times.

Ortega also plunged a knife into her own neck in an alleged failed suicide attempt.

'YOU'RE EVIL!' NYC MOM OF MURDERED KIDS ERUPTS AT NANNY DURING TRIAL

The jury found Ortega guilty on four charges - two of first degree murder and two of second degree murder. She showed no reaction, merely staring straight ahead, after the verdict was read aloud.

The defendant had pleaded not guilty to the children's death. Her lawyer, while not disputing that Ortega killed the children, argued that she suffered from mental illness and heard voices in unchecked disorders.

However, prosecutors argued that she was fully aware of what she was doing and understood "every stab, every slash." They argued that Ortega intentionally waited until Krim discovered her children's bodies before stabbing herself with the knife.

Assistant District Attorney Courtney Groves argued the possibility that Ortega's resentment and jealousy of Krim was behind the incident - although a motive for the crime remains unclear.

SON OF NANNY ACCUSED OF FATALLY STABBING TWO CHILDREN SAYS MURDERS WERE AN 'ACCIDENT'

The murder trial began on March 1. Ortega will be sentenced next month and faces life in prison.

After hours of emotional testimony in court one day, the children's mother shouted at Ortega, calling her "evil."

"You're evil! You're evil!" Marina Krim yelled at her former nanny. "And you like this, you like this, you're getting pleasure."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Every Supreme Court decision is important to the parties involved,

but only a handful have so much impact, and such a powerful story, that someone makes a movie about it.

And one such case is “Kelo v. City of New London,” on which "Little Pink House" — a dramatic recreation of the story behind the ruling — is based. "Kelo" caused widespread outrage when it was handed down in 2005, and as a cautionary tale about people being kicked out of their houses, it resonates to this day.

The case is about eminent domain—the government’s power to take private property for public use. But as Fox News legal analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano explains, while eminent domain was once used "for roads, highways, public parks and things of that nature," the "Kelo" case represented "a radical expansion of the public use requirement."

After "Kelo," politicians could take away land from one citizen and give it to another simply because the government believed the second would pay more taxes.

As Justice Sandra Day O’Connor put it in her dissent, "The specter of condemnation hangs over all property. Nothing is to prevent the State from replacing a Motel 6 with a Ritz-Carlton, any home with a shopping mall, or any farm with a factory.”

"The specter of condemnation hangs over all property. Nothing is to prevent the State from replacing a Motel 6 with a Ritz-Carlton, any home with a shopping mall, or any farm with a factory.” - Justice Sandra Day O'Connor

Filmmaker Courtney Balaker read about the struggles of Susette Kelo and felt her story had to be told. Courtney and her husband and producing partner, Ted, met with Kelo to get her support and to hear what happened directly from the source.

As Balaker told Fox News, Susette Kelo "wanted to start a new phase of her life. She’d just raised five boys, they were all grown, she was leaving a bad marriage. All she wanted to do was live the rest of her life in peace."

"She found a little dilapidated cottage on the Thames River in New London," Balaker explained. "She fixed it up with her bare hands, painted it pink, and looked forward to coming home every day and just looking out at the water."

Unfortunately for Kelo and her neighbors, the town wanted to build things like high-end condos and parking structures for the benefit of Pfizer, a drug company on the other side of the river. Pfizer had just invented Viagra and was looking to expand its facility.

So the government wanted Susette Kelo and her neighbors — many of whom were elderly and had never lived anywhere else — to make way. And the city wouldn’t take no for an answer.

Kelo decided to fight city hall, all the way to the Supreme Court. It took years for her case to reach the highest court. Kelo lost 5-4.

And yet, Balaker reminds us, though the city kicked these people out of their homes, "nothing was ever built — to this day, it’s an empty lot."

"Little Pink House" has already played at numerous festivals and won several awards. "What really surprised me," said Balaker, is that "in almost every festival we played, one person would stand up and say 'This happened to me' or 'I know someone this happened to.' It’s way more common than I think a lot of people know."

Though Kelo lost her case, in some ways, she’s winning the war. Balaker explained "her neighborhood was bulldozed [but] it was such an outrageous decision....that several states changed their eminent domain laws so that this type of abuse couldn’t happen again."

Yet, as Judge Napolitano notes, even with these new laws, the government is still a force to be reckoned with. As he put it, "eminent domain is still used by municipalities to flip the property to private developers — they just have to come up with a rationale other than the 'Kelo' rationale.'"

One surprise in the story is which Supreme Court justices joined in the decision. As Balaker noted, "a lot of people I talk to assume that the justices against Susette were the conservatives, and they weren’t — it was the liberal justices who were against Susette. That really shocks people.”

Some were so angry at the decision that the town of Weare, New Hampshire came close to evicting “Kelo” supporter Justice David Souter from his farmhouse and replacing it with an inn.

The “Kelo” majority was made up of the four-person liberal bloc on the court, along with swing vote Justice Anthony Kennedy.

Which is why some hope, with Kennedy hinting he may soon retire, that his replacement would be a fifth vote to overturn "Kelo."

Judge Napolitano said that's a serious possibility, "if President Trump replaces Justice Kennedy with someone who thinks the way Justice Gorsuch—Trump’s first pick to the court--does, [a new eminent domain case] would clearly have a different outcome. Justice Gorsuch is a fierce defender of property rights."

"[If] President Trump replaces Justice Kennedy with someone who thinks the way Justice Gorsuch—Trump’s first pick to the court--does, [a new eminent domain case] would clearly have a different outcome. Justice Gorsuch is a fierce defender of property rights." - Judge Andrew Napolitano

Trump himself, as a real estate developer, supported “Kelo” and spoke about it on the campaign trail. Balaker, who was shooting her film at the time, called it a surreal experience to suddenly have a leading presidential candidate turn eminent domain into a campaign issue.

“Little Pink House,” starring Oscar nominee Catherine Keener, opens this weekend at selected theaters. It’s meant to entertain, but Balaker hopes it can also draw attention to the battle fought in “Kelo” and still being fought today. The film’s website, LittlePinkHouseMovie.com, not only tells about the film, but also explains how people can take action.

Balaker believes this is an issue almost everyone can agree on. To her, this isn’t “liberals versus conservatives, it’s outsiders versus insiders.

Susette and her neighbors were the outsiders. They didn’t have power, they were the little guys. Politicians say ‘we stand for the little guy’ but oftentimes they don’t. In this case, they certainly didn’t.”

And while the movie may be coming soon to a theater near you, the problem of eminent domain abuse may already be there. Ultimately, said Balaker, “there’s a little pink house in every state.”

Fox News Channel's Kristine Kotta contributed reporting to this story.Officials at the U.S. Embassy in Germany hired a professor for a speaking engagement who once compared President Trump's rhetoric to that of the Islamic State. It's a move some lawmakers say is what you get when ambassador appointments aren't properly confirmed and deployed around the world.

"Germany is a very important partner to the United States," Sen. John Barrasso, R-Wyo., told Fox News. "It's hard to believe that the U.S. Embassy would invite someone who wrote those things about the president to speak."

The professor in question -- Arie Kruglanski, who co-founded the National Center for the Study of Terrorism and the Response to Terrorism -- wrote in December 2015 that both Trump and ISIS “exploit the fear and uncertainty so prevalent in the world today and skillfully cultivate it.”

“The outcomes of their incitements can be disastrous,” Kruglanski added in an opinion piece published in The Guardian. “If not arrested and resisted, they would set the world afire sowing chaos, death and destruction all around.”

Kruglanski was, despite his writings, invited to Berlin in February to discuss Trump’s national security strategy with U.S. diplomats and their German counterparts.

The U.S. Embassy in Berlin did not immediately respond to Fox News’ request for comment. But its website noted that “as part of our nationwide speaker program, the U.S. Embassy regularly brings U.S. experts to Germany to promote mutual exchange on relevant topics.”

In an email to Fox News, Kruglanski said the topics he was asked to discuss in Berlin were unrelated to his critique of Trump during the 2016 presidential campaign.

“I was invited to speak about my research on violent extremism, a topic that I have studied all over the world and in a variety of manifestations,” he said. “It is unrelated to my analysis of President Trump's rhetoric during the campaign, which was the nature of my ‘criticism.'”

The incident for some has highlighted the fact that the U.S. Embassy in Germany has been without an American ambassador since the day Trump was inaugurated, while Democrats continue to block the nomination of Richard Grenell, a Trump pick with extensive foreign policy experience.

Trump tapped Grenell – the former spokesman for the U.S. Mission to the the United Nations under President George W. Bush – in September. But despite support from some Democrats as well as Republicans, his confirmation – along with those of a number of key ambassadorial nominees -- has been held up in the Senate.

"The Democrats have made a concerted effort to prevent President Trump from putting his team in place," Senator Barrasso said. "It's purely a political move on their part."

Barrasso wants to change a rule that allows for 30 hours of Senate discussion per nominee, which Republicans say effectively allows Democrats to jam up the appointment process. Barrasso wants to limit the number of hours of discussion to eight -- a standard Democrats supported under the Obama administration.

Grenell's nomination, which has been championed by a broad range of Republican and conservative officials and commentators, has also picked up the support of a liberal gay rights group, the Harvey Milk Foundation. If confirmed, Grennell – a former contributor to Fox News – will be the Trump administration's first openly gay ambassador.

“I understand those who are frustrated with the Trump administration" and its actions, Stuart Milk, the co-founder of the group, recently told The New York Times. “And I think that’s misguided." (Milk helped establish the group in honor of his uncle, a prominent gay civil rights pioneer in California who was gunned down some three decades ago.)

Senate Majority Leader Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., last month called for unanimous voice consent to push the nomination through. But Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., objected, citing his objections to some comments Grenell made on Twitter that he says showed "a complete disregard for the Senate confirmation process."

Grenell’s supporters pushed back strongly on Merkley’s objections, noting that the tweets since he was nominated last fall have focused on foreign policy issues.

Grenell declined to comment to Fox News while he awaits Senate action.Slide Fire, the largest manufacturer of bump stocks in the U.S., said Wednesday it will stop taking orders for the products and shut down its website on May 20.

Continue Reading Below

The use and manufacture of bump stocks, which allow semi-automatic rifles to mimic the firing rate of automatic weapons, drew federal scrutiny in recent months after Las Vegas shooter Stephen Paddock used the device while firing on a crowd of people outside the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino last October. The massacre left 58 people dead.

Slide Fire sells bump stocks for various rifle types popular among gun enthusiasts, including the AR-15 platform. Some versions of the device are available for less than $200.

“On Sunday, May 20, 2018 at midnight CDT, Slide Fire will cease taking orders for its products and shut down its website,” a message on the company’s website said. “Orders placed prior to May 20th, 2018 will all be processed and shipped. We thank you for your support.”

The Texas-based company did not immediately respond to a request for comment from FOX Business on its decision to cease digital operation.

The Justice Department proposed last month a plan to effectively ban bump stocks. President Donald Trump is a vocal advocate of the ban, stating last month that the devices “turn legal weapons into illegal machines.”

Advertisement

The U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) originally approved bump stocks in 2010.An ill-advised, inebriated jump over a crowd of spectators at a ski competition in Colorado has led to a criminal investigation after two people were injured, authorities said.

The Summit County Sheriff’s Office announced Tuesday that a criminal probe has been launched into Saturday’s crash at the Copper Mountain Ski Resort, where skiers were taking part in the 2018 Red Bull Slope Soakers event.

After getting a report of a contestant who intentionally skied into onlookers, responding deputies identified Hayden Wright, 26, of Englewood, Colo., as the man who witnesses said badly missed his mark and broke a woman’s collarbone in the process.

“It was not even close,” witness Chris Logan told The Summit Daily. “You’d have to be Red Gerard and not drinking to clear that.”

Logan said Wright approached him prior to the jump while holding a Bloody Mary and said he was planning to jump over the crowd. Logan and another woman standing nearby when Wright made the statement were puzzled by the declaration, he said.

“We looked at each other and said, ‘There’s no way he’s actually going to try that sort of thing, right?’” Logan recalled to the newspaper.

Logan then joined the crowd, which was about six-people deep, he said. He then prepared for the worst as Wright barreled down the hill.

“I just hit the deck,” Logan said. “When I got up everyone was all shaken. There were three to four people on the ground hurt. It was like a car wreck. Everyone was shocked.”

Nine seconds of footage obtained by the newspaper shows a skier going down a small hill before hitting a ramp and launching into a crowd of spectators. Rap music blared from speakers as startled spectators reacted in shock, according to the brief video.

Summit County Sheriff Jaime FitzSimons told the newspaper that deputies were delayed in responding to the incident, which was reported over dispatch as a reckless driving crash, because a suicide threat received nearby took precedence.

Wright was later cited for third-degree assault and a violation of the skier safety act — both misdemeanors — and was released, according to the sheriff’s office.

Read more from the New York Post.A group of more than 100 octopus "moms" and their eggs were found clustered about 2 miles below the ocean's surface off the Pacific coast of Costa Rica by a group of scientists during a deep-sea expedition.

The researchers made the surprising discovery while exploring the Dorado Outcrop, a rocky area of the ocean floor created by an underwater volcano, with a drone.

“When I first saw the photos, I was like ‘No, they shouldn’t be there! Not that deep and not that many of them,” Janet Voight, associate curator of zoology at Chicago's Field Museum and an author of a new study on the findings published in "Deep Sea Research Part I," said in a statement online.

The pink, "dinner-plate-sized" octopuses — a never-before-seen species of the genus Muusoctopus — were gathering around cracks in the outcrop, where warm liquids are released. The fact the octopuses were drawn to warmer temperatures shocked Voight, who has been studying the cold water creatures for years.

"It doesn’t make sense for deep-sea octopuses to brood eggs in warm water like this: it’s suicide." - Janet Voight,

"It doesn’t make sense for deep-sea octopuses to brood eggs in warm water like this: it’s suicide," the Field Museum explained in a post on its website. "Exposure to higher temperatures jump-starts their metabolism, making them need more oxygen than the warm water can provide."

Scientists counted at least 186 eggs attached to the rocky surface, though none had "any sign of developing an embryo."

"All in all, not a great place to start an octopus family," the Field Museum commented.

But there is light at the end of the tunnel, Voight says. The sheer number of octopuses discovered in the area indicates there may be a climate nearby suitable for the "monsters of the sea."

“Octopus females only produce one clutch of eggs in their lives. In order for this huge population to be sustained, there must be even more octopuses to replace the dying mothers and eggs that we can see,” Voight said.

"All in all, not a great place to start an octopus family." - Field Museum

Voight, along with fellow authors and researchers Geoff Wheat and Anne Hartwell, shared footage of the octopuses with deep-sea biologists. They hope to continue studying and learning from the odd behavior — and maybe even make more startling discoveries.

“The focus of [our] expeditions to Dorado Outcrop was to study a cool hydrothermal system. In doing so, we discovered this fascinating congregation of brooding octopuses,” Wheat, a geochemist at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, said in a statement. “This is only the third hydrothermal system of its type that has been sampled, yet millions of similar environments exist in the deep sea. What other remarkable discoveries are waiting for us?”The Cuban government nominated Miguel Mario Diaz-Canel Bermudez, the country's 57-year-old first vice president, to succeed Raul Castro as president Wednesday in an effort to ensure the island's single-party system outlives its creators.

Castro, 86, will remain head of the Communist Party, designated by the constitution as "the superior guiding force of society and the state." As a result, Castro is almost certain to remain the most powerful person in Cuba for the time being. He succeeded his older brother, Fidel Castro, as president in 2006 after the elder Castro stepped aside due to illness.

Fidel Castro died in November 2016 at the age of 90.

Facing biological reality, Raul Castro is working to ensure a smooth transition from him and his small group of former guerrillas to a new generation that can maintain the government's grip on power in the face of economic stagnation, an aging population and waning revolutionary fervor among Cuban youth attuned more to global consumer culture than the anti-capitalist, nationalist messaging of the state-run media.

That media went into overdrive Wednesday with a single message: Cuba's system is continuing in the face of change. Commentators on state television and online offered lengthy explanations of why Cuba's single-party politics and socialist economy are superior to multi-party democracy and free markets, and assured Cubans that no fundamental changes were occurring, despite some new faces at the top.

Nominated as new first vice president was Salvador Valdes Mesa, a 72-year-old Afro-Cuban former union official who has held a long series of high posts in the Cuban government. The government's official Candidacy Commission also nominated another five vice presidents of the Council of State, Cuba's highest government body. Only one of the five, 85-year-old Ramiro Valdez, was among the Communist revolutionaries who fought with the Castros in the eastern Sierra Maestra mountains.

"It falls on our generation to give continuity to the revolutionary process," said assembly member Jorge Luis Torres, a municipal councilman from central Artemisa province who appeared to be in his 40s. "We're a generation born after the revolution, whose responsibility is driving the destiny of the nation."

The result of the National Assembly votes for president and vice presidents and other national leaders is expected to be officially announced Thursday, the anniversary of the U.S.-backed Bay of Pigs invasion defeated by Cuban forces in 1961.

As in Cuba's legislative elections, all of the leaders being voted in on Wednesday were selected by a government-appointed commission. Ballots offer only the option of approving or disapproving the official candidate. Candidates generally receive more than 90 percent of the votes in their favor.

The appointment of Diaz-Canel was met with skepticism by Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, R-Fla., who is Cuban-American.

"Today, the Cuban regime has named a new puppet," Diaz-Balart said. "Just like Fidel Castro named Osvaldo Dorticós as ‘president’ until 1976, Raul Castro has now named Miguel Díaz Canel as the new 'president of the Council of Ministers and State.'"

"Raul Castro remains head of the sole 'legal' party and the armed forces, his son-in-law remains head of the economy, and his son remains a top official in the feared Ministry of the Interior," Diaz-Balart continued. "Today’s designation of a new Dorticós is a nothingburger. The important matter is that the Cuban people will be free, and I will continue to stand with them."

James Williams, the president of Engage Cuba, a group that advocates for greater trade and engagement with the island, said that Diaz-Canel should be given a chance.

Williams noted that Diaz-Canel is largely an enigma -- at some points making statements appearing to be progressive on issues like Internet access and LGBT issues, but also expressing a hard line on U.S.-Cuba relations and freedom of speech.

"I don’t think we fully know him," Williams says, adding that rising through the political ranks in Cuba practically required Diaz-Canel to tread carefully.

"He's got more to gain than to lose by being [visible] out there," Williams said. "He'd be the president of 11 million people, but his core is really about 30 people who had to put him in the position [of president]."

Diaz-Canel, Williams said, must deal with a hard line segment of the Communist Party that holds considerable sway and are firmly opposed to engagement with the United States.

"We know he has constraints," Williams says. "But we didn't know Gorbachev would be Gorbachev."

John Caulfield, the former chief of mission of the U.S. Special Interests Section in Cuba, said that Diaz-Canel has been a longtime "supporter of the Communist Party of Cuba."

Caulfield noted that the new president does not seem to have a base large enough to serve as a mandate for him to act on his preferences and in ways that deviate significantly from the Castro brothers.

"It's unclear how free a hand Diaz-Canel will have."

Fox News' Elizabeth Llorente and The Associated Press contributed to this report.SpaceX is set to launch NASA's newest exoplanet-hunting spacecraft on Wednesday evening.

A SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket is scheduled to blast off with the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, or TESS, satellite from Cape Canaveral, Florida at 6:51 p.m. EDT.

On Wednesday morning, SpaceX tweeted that all systems and weather are go for the launch. SpaceX halted Monday's countdown for extra rocket checks.

“The search for worlds beyond our solar system continues today with the launch of our @NASA_TESS spacecraft,” tweeted NASA on Wednesday afternoon.

Once in orbit, the spacecraft will peer at hundreds of thousands of bright neighboring stars, seeking planets that might support life. Scientists expect TESS to identify thousands of planets in our cosmic backyard, adding to the bounty provided over the past decade by NASA's Kepler Space Telescope.

STUNNING SPACE DIAMONDS DISCOVERY: MYSTERIOUS METEORITE CAME FROM 'LOST PLANET'

The planets discovered by Kepler are too distant and too faint for practical study. But those found by TESS should be close enough for mega telescopes in the future to detect any atmospheric signs of life.

This has been a busy few weeks for SpaceX, which launched its 14th resupply mission to the International Space Station on April 2, sending a reused cargo ship packed with supplies and equipment to the orbiting lab.

On March 30, a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket successfully launched 10 next-generation satellites for Iridium Communications from California.

The Associated Press contributed to this article.

Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersA decorated Army chaplain is facing what his attorneys are calling a “career-ending punishment” after he explained to a soldier that he could not conduct a marriage retreat that included same-sex couples because of his religious beliefs.

A military investigation at Fort Bragg in North Carolina determined that Chaplain Scott Squires should be disciplined for his failure to include a lesbian couple in Strong Bonds, a marriage retreat sponsored by the Army.

Click here to follow Fox News personality Todd Starnes on Twitter!

The investigation determined that he chaplain, who is endorsed by the Southern Baptist Convention’s North American Mission Board (NAMB), had discriminated against the soldier based on her sexual orientation.

The Southern Baptists forbid their chaplains from facilitating marriage retreats that include same-sex couples.

When Squires realized he could not participate, he rescheduled the event to accommodate the lesbian couple with a chaplain who could oversee the retreat. But apparently that was not good enough.

“The Army EO policy states that no service will be denied to any member of the Armed Service regardless of race, color, national origin, gender, religious affiliation, or sexual orientation,” read a report from the investigator. “CH Squires should be reprimanded for his failure to include (name deleted) in the initial Strong Bonds Retreat.”

But First Liberty Institute, a religious liberty law firm representing the chaplain, said on the “Todd Starnes Radio Show” that its client was placed in an untenable position.

Had Squires participated in the marriage retreat he would have risked losing his endorsement by the Southern Baptists. Likewise, the Army requires its chaplains to adhere to their endorsers’ rules and religious tenets.

“Chaplain Squires should not have his career ruined for following the rules of both his faith and the Army,” First Liberty Institute attorney Mike Berry said on the “Todd Starnes Radio Show.”

According to a Southern Baptist memorandum released in 2013: “NAMB endorsed chaplains will not conduct or attend a wedding ceremony for any same sex couple, bless such a union or perform counseling in support of such a union, assist or support paid contractors or volunteers leading same-sex relational events, nor offer any kind of relationship training or retreat, on or off a military installation, that would give the appearance of accepting” such relationships.

The Army’s investigation determined the chaplain should’ve followed military protocol instead of the rules of the Southern Baptists.

“CH Squires behaved as if his NAMB restrictions superseded (name redacted)’s right to attend the event,” the investigator wrote.

Investigators also ruled the chaplain had committed discrimination by explaining to the offended soldier that his religious beliefs prevented him from participating in the retreat.

“In essence, the investigator equated Chaplain Squires’ explaining the requirements of his faith with unlawful discrimination,” Berry said. “It is inconceivable that a military chaplain who merely explains his ecclesiastical endorser places certain restrictions on what religious rites, ceremonies, and practices he may perform violates military EO policy.”

The investigator said Squires’ explanation was “unnecessary” and “created a situation where he unintentionally violated Army EO policy.”

"That would mean a chaplain can't even talk about their religious beliefs without being accused of discrimination. That would strip thousands of chaplains across our military of their most basic freedoms under the First Amendment," Berry said.

Berry said federal law protects the chaplain and prohibits the military from punishing any chaplain acting in accordance with his or her religious beliefs.

“Chaplains should not have to give up their First Amendment rights in order to serve,” Berry said.

So unless the military reverses its decision, Squires will be punished by the Army for following the Army’s own regulations.For a long time, the Democrats have been successful by scaring people into voting for them. It’s a tactic used when you can’t persuade people on policy. Americans were recently reminded of the Democrats’ usual refrain when House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi declared President Trump’s tax cuts as “Armageddon.” Mrs. Pelosi went there, relying on contrived drama, comparing a tax cut to a fight between biblical armies during the end times.

When the Senate GOP was discussing Mr. Trump’s health care bill, the Democrats’ response? “Hundreds of thousands of people will die,” delivered again by Nancy ‘We’re all gonna die’ Pelosi.

Neither of those warnings are serious or true, but the Democrats have no policy answers, so they’ve decided to rely on existential threats.

Keith Ellison, the deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee, was handed the Grim Reaper baton when he said this to the Progressive National Candidate Training gathering last week: “Women are dying because we are losing elections,” Mr. Ellison said, Fox News Insider reported. “We don’t have the right to lose a damn election. We have to win.”

Mr. Ellison was referring to a reported rise in maternal mortality rates in Missouri and Texas. The good news is, for Texas, that report has already been disproven, and explained by a computer reporting error.

And what is their argument really based on? The infantilizing of women. Underscoring Mr. Ellison’s remarks is an argument that women are so fragile, so vulnerable, that if Democrats don’t win and government doesn’t control more of your life, you’ll die. That is an inherently sexist argument, promoting the fraud that women can’t control their own lives and need a Big Brother to help them along.

Imagine what we could accomplish if we rejected the political class’ attempt to divide women and pit us against each other? Instead of using women’s lives as fodder for a stump speech, what if we actually committed to working together to determine what policies improve women’s lives, their health and their longevity?

Facts are an inconvenient thing for Democrats. They prefer people ignorant on the truth of any matter, because when it comes to the destruction of women’s lives, that’s a Democrat’s specialty.

The “Women’s March” group, arguably the main and absolutely the most visible organizing group for the Democrats, recently bemoaned the shuttering of the sex trafficking website Backpage.com and arrest of its leadership.

Just days later, Ken Paxton, the Texas attorney general, announced the company pleaded guilty to human trafficking and money laundering. The “Women’s March” complaint? The removal of Backpage makes it more difficult for prostitutes to communicate with their customers.

Mr. Paxton’s office noted, “As the largest online sex trafficking marketplace in the world, Backpage facilitated the sex trafficking of innocent women and children through sites it ran for 943 locations in 97 countries and 17 languages. It was involved in 73 percent of all child trafficking cases reported to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.”

Perhaps Mr. Ellison wants to distract women from the fact that liberal policies don’t have a good track record when it comes to improving their lives.

During Barack Obama’s two terms as president, “women suffered steeper declines in take home pay than men. Women also experienced sharper declines in employment and a faster rise in poverty. … On Mr. Obama’s watch, 2 million more women slipped into poverty. The poverty rate among women reached 16.1 percent — the highest level in the 20 years prior to his disastrous presidency,” economist Stephen Moore reported in this newspaper.

As our veterans have learned when government takes over your health care, bad things happen. If we really want to improve women’s health care, it would be worth examining the expansion of Medicaid through Obamacare.

Hadley Heath Manning, the director of policy at Independent Women’s Forum, noted, “It’s very interesting that the maternal mortality rate has increased as the number of women giving birth on Medicaid has also increased. We should take a very serious look at the low quality of care some American women receive when they are shuffled into government programs rather than empowered to buy their own affordable, private health insurance.”

Ms. Manning added that Medicaid has poorer outcomes in almost every metric, in part due to the low quality of care available, and also of course due to the confounding variables related to poverty.

In fact, it’s poverty and women not being financially independent that keep us from being able to make the choices that best suit us. Like him personally or not, it’s undeniable that Mr. Trump’s policies have already improved the quality of women’s lives across the spectrum. Women’s unemployment is the lowest it’s been in 20 years. Unemployment of African-Americans is the lowest in history.

Tax reform for individuals and business owners helps women two-fold. Consider these facts:

• 9.4 million businesses in America are owned by women.

• Nearly 3 million women-owned businesses are owned by women of color employing 1.4 million people.

• Women are graduating from college at a faster rate than men.

• More than 70 percent of moms have a job outside of family life.

• Women make up 47 percent of the workforce and 40 percent of the family breadwinners.

It’s economic policy that makes the difference for women and their families. We all deserve serious policy proposals and action that results in meaningful, direct change. We’re getting that with Mr. Trump’s policy and legislation. With the Democrats, we get warnings of death and destruction. Perhaps they’re finally being honest about what their agenda has to offer.

This column originally appeared in The Washington Times.A Delta flight out of LaGuardia Airport was forced to make an emergency landing at Dulles due to the plane having “left a tire” back in New York, according to a passenger.

The Delta Connection flight, which was operated by ExpressJet, was headed from New York to Richmond, Va., on Tuesday when the crew reported problems with the aircraft’s landing gear, a spokesperson for ExressJet confirmed to WTOP.

TRAGIC SOUTHWEST FLIGHT MARKS SECOND 'HORRIFIC' TRIP FOR CARRIER THIS WEEK

The plane made an emergency landing at Washington Dulles International Airport in the early afternoon. All 46 passengers and four crew members deplaned safely. The airline transported the travelers the rest of the way to Richmond — approximately 120 miles — by charter bus.

Jason Chow, a passenger aboard the flight, later tweeted out that the plane “left a tire” in NYC, along with a photo of the aircraft seemingly missing one.

“Extended my amazing #AERA18 with an overnight delay and an emergency landing in Dulles bc we left a tire in NYC,” wrote Chow.

HOW CAN A PASSENGER BE SUCKED FROM AN AIRPLANE

Chow also thanked the plane’s crew and pilot for how they handled the landing.

ExpressJet has since extended a statement regarding the incident, as well as an apology to passengers.

"ExpressJet Airlines Flight 5507, operating as Delta Connection from LaGuardia to Richmond, Virginia, elected to divert to Washington-Dulles International Airport, due to a reported problem with one of the aircraft’s wheels," said ExpressJet spokesperson Jarek Beem in a statement obtained by Fox News. “The safety of our customers and crew is always our top priority and we sincerely apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused for our customers,” he later added on behalf of the company.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

The Delta flight’s emergency landing comes the same day Southwest Flight 1380 was forced to make an emergency landing in Philadelphia following the explosion of an engine mid-flight. Southwest confirmed on Tuesday that one female passenger died as a result of the incident.A Texas bar has taken down a sign with a racial slur after being called out on social media by two angry patrons.



Jim’s Rodeo Tavern in Fort Worth was displaying the controversial sign, which read “Shut up N-----“ along with “RIP Teresa Kidwell" and the date “1-5-16.” The owner, James Emerson, told Dallas News it was in honor of Kidwell, a frequent customer who liked to use the phrase.

THE REAL MEANING BEHIND STORMY DANIELS' NECKLACE

"It was kind of a joke," Emerson said. "It was never indicative of anything racial." According to the outlet, Kidwell was a white woman.

Jess Bunting and Owen McGrath, who run another bar in the area, posted photos of the “disgusting” sign to Facebook after noticing it while having drinks at the tavern. The two men said they couldn’t believe what they saw and that it made them uncomfortable.

“For an establishment this day in age to have something like this displayed is taking a step back in time. First off I will never step foot in there again and encourage the same out of anyone else,” Bunting wrote on Facebook.

“I was initially worried about posting this, but I need everyone to know that this is unacceptable, under any circumstances…This is not something that can be condoned, it’s not something I’m willing to stay quiet about either. This does not represent my city,” McGrath added in a Facebook post.

Emerson said the sign has been up for over two years, but Bunting told the Dallas News he never noticed it before. McGrath, who was at the bar for the first time, asked the bartender about it, but he shrugged it off. As a gay man, McGrath said he was afraid to start a confrontation for fear of harm or prejudice.

"That's the only reason I didn't say anything in the moment," he said. "I don't want to put myself in that situation in case that's an issue," he told Dallas News.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Emerson said he’s never received any complaints about the sign in the past and wishes Bunting and McGrath had brought up their issue with someone at the bar, rather than posting about it online. He believes it has to do with the fact that they have competing businesses, though McGrath denies the allegation.

"This isn't a situation of us trying to mess with their business," he said. "This is a situation of us seeing something that we feel really strongly about, something that's wildly inappropriate to us."Katie Couric admitted she's still having trouble determining what's fact and what's fiction in the allegations of sexual assault against her former "Today" co-host Matt Lauer.

Couric said in a new interview on Tuesday that she hasn't "reconciled" the Lauer she knows and loves with the Lauer that has been accused of sexual assault and harassment.

“I don't think I have reconciled it, honestly, because it’s very upsetting and disappointing. I also really don’t know the details of these incidents still," Couric told Buzzfeed. "And I think a lot of people who worked on the show when I was there, and when Matt and I did the 'Today' show, don’t really understand the extent of these incidents or what exactly happened and, you know, separating truth from fiction."

Lauer, 60, was fired from his tenure at NBC after multiple women accused the anchor of sexual assault and harassment last year. The claims against Lauer include one woman saying he sexually assaulted her in his office until she passed out and another saying he gifted her a sex toy with a crude note. A woman came forward in November and accused him of sexually harassing her during the Sochi Olympics, and her claim ultimately led to his firing.

Couric, 61, who worked with Lauer for 15 years, said the allegations have made her ponder what a consensual relationship looks like "when there is this imbalance of power."

"So I’m still sort of sorting it out honestly in my mind and I think these ongoing conversations with other women of all ages — and men too, I think men need to be included in the conversation — are really helpful," she said.

Couric said last month that she was "unaware" of Lauer's alleged behavior during her time at "Today."

"In my case, it was something I was unaware of because if you talk to experts about this, people are very proficient at being secretive about certain behavior and making sure people don't witness certain behaviors," Couric explained at The Wrap's Power Women Breakfast on March 12.

She also denied having any knowledge of Lauer's reported wrongdoings in January saying "the whole thing has been very painful for me."

"I had no idea this was going on during my tenure or after I left,” she said. “I think I speak for many of my former colleagues when I say this was not the Matt we knew. Matt was a kind and generous colleague who treated me with respect," Couric told People.Professional wrestling legend Bruno Sammartino died Wednesday, WWE announced. He was 82.

Sammartino, a WWE Hall of Famer, was known as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of any era and one of the ultimate good guys in the ring.

Sammartino grew up in Abruzzi, Italy and lived under Nazi occupation during World War II. He and his mother hid out in Valla Rocca during the occupation and eventually joined his father in Pittsburgh in 1950.

“The Italian Superman” started to hit the weights in the late 50’s and caught the eye of Vincent J. McMahon – one of the pioneers of American professional wrestling.

Sammartino quickly became a fan favorite after defeating Buddy Rogers in 43 seconds at Madison Square Garden in 1963 to become the second-ever WWE champion.

Samamartino held the WWE title for nearly eight years and became a household name over the course of his career. He had his rivalries with some of wrestling’s famous names, including George “The Animal” Steele, Gorilla Monsoon and Killer Kowalski.

He would lose his title to Ivan Koloff in 1971, but eventually won it back two years later becoming the first two-time WWE champion. He held the title for three-and-a-half more years.

He would retire from in-ring competition in 1981 and would join Vincent K. McMahon as a broadcaster in the mid-80s.

WWE inducted him into its Hall of Fame in 2013 at Madison Square Garden – the 188th time he would be showcased at the World’s Greatest Arena.

Sammartino is survied by his three sons and four grandchildren.John Cena once made Nikki Bella sign a 75-page contract before the former couple moved in together in 2013.

Before Bella could set her suitcase in Cena’s house years ago, she was handed the over-the-top contract that labeled her as a “guest” in Cena’s house. Detailed in the first season of “Total Bellas,” Bella told her twin sister Brie Bella she didn’t understand why she had to sign a contract.

A post shared by Nikki Bella (@thenikkibella) on Mar 14, 2018 at 12:39pm PDT

“I just don’t understand it. I just don’t know what to feel. I’m so confused,” Nikki said, according to People. “It kind of makes me second-guess where John and I stand in our relationship. I love John but maybe he knows that he doesn’t want to be with me forever?”

The contract stated Nikki Bella -- who announced her split with Cena this week -- would have to vacate the home immediately if the WWE stars broke up.

“Is that all I’m ever going to be in [John’s] heart, is a guest? Am I ever going to have that permanent spot in the rest of [his] life?” she said after seeing the contract.

JOHN CENA, NIKKI BELLA BREAK UP DETAILS REVEALED

Cena eventually convinced his then-girlfriend to sign the contract, explaining that the agreement was done to protect his finances so he can support his family members.

“You met my family. You think my mom paid for that house herself? She didn’t. My brother lives in that house, they’re expecting a child. My younger brother, he’s got medical problems. I make sure he’s okay. I always tell them, I’m a horrible brother, but I try to be the best provider that I can," Cena said in 2016. "I just don’t want to ever be in a position where that’s in jeopardy.”

A post shared by Nikki Bella (@thenikkibella) on Jan 27, 2018 at 8:23am PST

In another 2016 episode, Cena compared the contract to a prenuptial agreement.

“Having been through that process, here is how I view it. It is like buying a handgun for home defense. It gives you a sense of security, and it gives you a failsafe in case something happens,” Cena said. “And those who buy a handgun for self-defense pray, pray they never have to use it. Without it, it’s a dog fight.”

“I had to have [Nikki] sign an agreement to live in the house,” he said. “And that’s – it wasn’t a one-page; it’s a 75-page agreement.”

The WWE stars announced Sunday they ended their engagement, calling it a “difficult” decision after six years of dating.

"While this decision was a difficult one, we continue to have a great deal of love and respect for one another," the couple said via Instagram. "We ask that you respect our privacy during this time in our lives."

The couple began dating in 2012 and Cena, 40, proposed to his longtime love at WrestleMania 33 last year. Cena was previously married to Elizabeth Huberdeau but got divorced in 2012 after three years.

Fans were stunned by the news of the Cena and Bella’s breakup as the former lovebirds had recently gushed over their upcoming nuptials.

Fox News’ Sasha Savitsky contributed to this report.Comedian Amy Schumer responded to the criticism she received for her latest film “I Feel Pretty” after the movie’s trailer spurned backlash.

Schumer, 36, told the Daily Beast she was aware of the backlash the film’s trailer received after critics blasted the movie’s message and accused it of focusing on today’s beauty standards.

“I was surprised,” Schumer said of the backlash. “But then I understood right away.”

The movie is about Renee Bennett, played by Schumer, who works for a beauty company but has low self-esteem. The woman does not feel pretty or thin enough compared to the other women in her office.

Bennett’s whole outlook on her life changes after she hits her head during an exercise class. The fall gives her a self-esteem boost and increases her confidence.

Following the trailer, critics accused the film of body-shaming women and setting “a standard of beauty so high that someone as conventionally attractive as Amy Schumer doesn’t meet it.”

‘BEWITCHED’ STAR PAUL LYNDE STRUGGLED WITH CHILDHOOD INSECURITIES, PAL CLAIMS

“People felt like this was supposed to be a movie where I play the really ugly girl and then I get pretty in the end or something,” Schumer said. “But that’s not what it is. It’s just about somebody with really low self-esteem.”

“It’s a metaphor for how much you want to be able to communicate to the people you love that you think are gorgeous, that you wish they could see themselves the way you see them,” the “Trainwreck” star explained. “People just kind of projected their own stuff onto it. That doesn’t surprise me. I think people do that for everything. But I really hope that doesn’t keep them from seeing the movie.”

CARRIE UNDERWOOD ‘SHAKEN’ AFTER FALL, ‘TERRIFIED’ OF FANS SEEING HER SCARS, REPORT SAYS

Schumer said she thought the backlash was “clarifying” and believed there was a need for a film like “I Feel Pretty” now.

“I think the trailer really triggered people, which is part of the reason why I think there is such a need for this movie right now,” she said. “And I hope that people do give it a chance. I know they’ll feel good leaving it. I really believe that.”

Despite Schumer believing the film’s message is enough to bring viewers in, The Hollywood Reporter stated the movie is slated to open lower than her other two hit comedies “Snatched” and “Trainwreck.” The movie is expected to take in $13 to $15 million during the opening compared to “Trainwreck” which received $30.1 million.

"I Feel Pretty" hits theaters on Friday.Ford has designed a revolutionary new car with a body that goes around and around.

The bizarre layout is depicted in a patent application that was filed on April 12 for a vehicle with a cylindrical passenger compartment and center-facing seats that are positioned around a round table, King Arthur's Court-style.

The entire compartment can be rotated, or the seats repositioned on the circular track they’re mounted to. The document also describes various entry systems where one or more of the wall sections either slides or swings open, and a roof that can be retracted in a number of ways.

The illustrations are intentionally basic and unrealistic to obscure what an actual production model might look like, but the text says that the concept could be applied to either an autonomous or conventional vehicle.

Like many companies, automakers often file patent applications for wild ideas that they have little or no intention of bringing to fruition anytime soon, but this one includes one section that indicates Ford may be taking this car-ousel seriously.

It mentions an airbag built into the table to protect the occupants in the event of an accident. That’s not surprising on its own, but is a feature that Ford included in a patent it applied for last year for a similar vehicle with a table that rises out of the floor and four captain’s chair-style seats that can be rotated to face it.

There’s no telling what direction Ford is heading with all of this, but it does plan to launch a purpose-built fully-autonomous in 2021, so we’ll find out then if it looks like a motorized Cycle Pub party bike.

FOLLOW FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE CAR NEWSA team led by Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen has found the wreck of the USS Helena in the Pacific, almost 75 years after it was sunk by Japanese torpedoes.

The World War II wreck was recently located off the Solomon Islands by crew aboard the Research Vessel (R/V) Petrel, according to a statement.

The St. Louis-class cruiser was sunk by three Japanese torpedoes during the Battle of Kula Gulf in July 1943. In all, more than 730 of the Helena's crew of 900 survived the sinking.

WRECK OF THE USS JUNEAU, FAMOUS FOR THE DEATHS OF THE 5 SULLIVAN BROTHERS, DISCOVERED IN PACIFIC

The wreckage of the Helena was found March 23, 2018, about a half mile (860 meters) below the surface of the New Georgia Sound. The team identified the light cruiser by the number 50 on its side and by comparing the wreck to the USS Helena's schematics.

Expeditions led by Allen have discovered a host of historic military shipwrecks, such as the USS Lexington, which was located last month, 76 years after it was lost in the Battle of the Coral Sea. Shortly after finding the Lexington, Allen’s team found the wreck of the USS Juneau, which was sunk by a Japanese torpedo and lost 687 sailors in 1942.

Last year, Allen’s crew found the long-lost wreck of the USS Indianapolis in the Philippine Sea. The sinking of the Indianapolis, which delivered the Hiroshima bomb in 1945 and is mentioned in the movie "Jaws," resulted in the greatest single loss of life at sea in the U.S. Navy’s history. Of 1,196 crew aboard the heavy cruiser, only 317 survived.

HUGE WORLD WAR II SHIPWRECK RAISED FROM THE DEPTHS IN MASSIVE SALVAGE OPERATION

Naval personnel in Sri Lanka recently raised a massive World War II shipwreck from the bottom of a harbor 75 years after the British merchant vessel was sunk following an attack by Japanese forces.

The Associated Press and Fox News’ Christopher Carbone contributed to this article. Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersNew analysis of a meteorite fragment from Sudan has found space diamonds, which scientists say came from a “lost planet” destroyed billions of years ago.

Scientists at the Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL) in Switzerland have discovered that the meteorite contains diamonds formed at high pressure in a “planetary embryo,” of a size between Mercury and Mars.

The meteorite is part of a 13-foot-wide asteroid that entered Earth’s atmosphere on Oct. 7, 2008 and exploded 23 miles above the Nubian desert in Sudan. The asteroid, dubbed “2008 TC3,” scattered multiple fragments across the desert, 50 of which were later found.

ASTEROID THE SIZE OF A FOOTBALL FIELD MAKES 'SURPRISE' FLYBY CLOSE TO EARTH

Analysis revealed that the fragments are largely “ureilites,” a rare form of stony meteorite that often contains clusters of tiny diamonds. “Current thinking is that these tiny diamonds can form in three ways: enormous pressure shockwaves from high-energy collisions between the meteorite ‘parent body’ and other space objects; deposition by chemical vapor; or, finally, the ‘normal’ static pressure inside the parent body, like most diamonds on Earth,” explained EPFL scientists, in a statement.

Mystery, however, has surrounded the origins of 2008 TC3. Scientists at EPFL, working with researchers in France and Germany, used electron microscope technology to show that chromite, phosphate and iron-nickel sulfides are embedded in the diamonds. “These have been known for a long time to exist inside Earth’s diamonds, but are now described for the first time in an extraterrestrial body,” the scientists explained.

The pressure needed to create the diamonds indicates that the “planetary embryo” was sized somewhere between Mercury and Mars, according to researchers. “Many planetary formation models have predicted that these planetary embryos existed in the first million years of our solar system, and the study offers compelling evidence for their existence,” they explained. “Many planetary embryos were Mars-sized bodies, such as the one that collided with Earth to give rise to the Moon. Other of these went on to form larger planets, or collided with the Sun or were ejected from the solar system altogether.”

METEORITE HUNTERS: SCIENTISTS SET TO SCOUR ANTARCTICA FOR RARE SPACE ROCKS

In research published in the journal Nature Communications, the experts write that the lost planet was likely destroyed by collisions about 4.5 billion years ago.

In a separate project, scientists from the U.K. are set to scour the frozen wastes of Antarctica in an audacious attempt to uncover lost meteorites.

In January, a meteor made headlines when it flashed across the sky in Michigan. The blazing fireball sent meteorite hunters scrambling to find fragments of the rare space rock.

ELON MUSK SAYS SPACEX WILL TRY TO LAND A ROCKET WITH A 'GIANT PARTY BALLOON'

NASA notes that large rocky objects in orbit around the Sun are known as asteroids or minor planets, whereas smaller particles are known as meteoroids. When a meteoroid enters Earth’s atmosphere it is known as a meteor.

Earlier this week an asteroid the size of a football field made a “surprise” flyby of Earth.

Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersA slithering sentinel male python equipped with a surgically implanted tracking device led Florida wildlife biologists to what they are calling a “breeding aggregation” -- or snake sex party.

Wildlife biologist Ian Bartoszek said they were tracking a Burmese python nicknamed Argo, who days earlier had helped them find a 100-pound female python ready to lay eggs.

On Valentine’s Day, Argo led them to what is being called the largest breeding aggregation ever discovered in Collier County, near Naples in Southwest Florida.

“We locate him and then there is another male, and another male and another,” Bartoszek, who is with the Conservancy of Southwest Florida, told the Naples News. “We know what all the males are for, so it’s like, where’s the female?”

The massive 15-foot-long, 115-pound egg-laying female was found nearby. There were a total of six male snakes – not including Argo.

“It was intense, it was a lot of snake in one spot,” Bartoszek told the Sun Sentinel.

The number of pythons, which are not endemic to Florida, has been steadily growing for years. The aggregation near Naples matches the largest found in the known hotbeds of the central and eastern Everglades.

The seven snakes found were euthanized. Argo was re-released for additional tracking.

The female had 60 eggs inside her and most of them would have hatched, Bartoszek affirmed. However, it’s unclear how many of those hatchlings would have survived.

The Conservancy of Southwest Florida have been using other male pythons like Argo to help track females, which biologists said are far more significant when it comes to population control because of the sheer number of eggs they can lay.

Biologists said part of what makes pythons difficult to track is they leave virtually no trace of their prey – small or large. The animals are swallowed whole and no carcass is left behind.

Wildlife experts estimate that 61 percent of a python’s diet are small mammals such as rabbits, opossums and raccoons. But there are exceptions.

Last month, the conservancy released photos of a Burmese python swallowing a whole deer. It was believed to be the “largest predator to prey ratio” ever documented in the history of the Burmese python species, the conservancy said at the time.

“You look at some 250 pounds of python and you think, what did it take to make that?” Bartoszek told the Naples News.

He said the conservancy removed about 2,000 pounds of pythons this year, and the same amount last year.

“It’s about removal, but it’s also about research,” he said. “As the technology advances we want to be able to follow the science. To really have an effective control we have to learn what we can learn about them and their habits to make informed decisions.”All eyes were on Carrie Underwood as she made her triumphant return to the public eye following a nasty fall in November that left her with 50 stitches in her face.

The country star took the stage at Sunday night's ACM Awards in front of her fellow artists and viewers at home who all wanted to see one thing: her face.

While she blew everyone away with her standing ovation-worthy performance of her new single "Cry Pretty," inside, the singer was "the most shaken anyone has ever seen her," a new report claims.

A source told People magazine that Underwood was incredibly nervous about debuting her face, which she said was "not quite looking the same" after her serious fall.

"She ended up skipping the red carpet because she didn’t want to be bombarded with questions about the accident," the source told the mag. "It's the most shaken anyone has ever seen her … This whole ordeal. She was terrified of people seeing the scars."

A rep for Underwood did not return Fox News' request for comment.

However, fans on Twitter overwhelmingly agreed they could not see a difference in Underwood's face.

Perhaps that was due to her glam team who was "under so much pressure," the Underwood insider alleged.

On Sunday night, Underwood was awarded Vocal Event of the Year with Keith Urban for their song "The Fighter" immediately after she received a full-minute standing ovation at the ACMs.

"Thank you for having me," the emotional singer said through tears. "I'm still shaking right now."

Underwood fell at her Nashville home in November and in addition to injuring her face, she also broke her wrist. She previously said the healing process has made her slow down — which she dubbed “forced relaxation” — and spend more time with her husband, Mike Fisher, and son, Isaiah. She called it a silver lining to the fall.Kathie Lee Gifford is a well-oiled machine who doesn’t need assistance waking up in the wee hours of the morning.

Talking about her morning routine on the “Today” show on Tuesday, the TV legend revealed she’s the definition of an early riser — adding her days start at 2 a.m.

“No, I’m not a snoozer,” the 64-year-old quipped to co-host Sheinelle Jones. “I don’t even have an alarm. I’ve been doing it for… since the 1800s before there were alarm clocks!”

When Jones, who appeared baffled by the confession, asked if Gifford is ever worried about oversleeping, she responded, “No, never.”

Gifford isn’t just laying in bed twiddling her thumbs, though. “Then I lay there and pray for sinners like you, Sheinelle,” Gifford said with a laugh. “I pray. I strategize. I think. I linger.”

Then, finally around 4 a.m., Gifford takes her dogs outside for a morning walk.

Gifford began co-hosting the fourth hour of the “Today” show with Hoda Kotb in 2008.

Before joining NBC, Gifford co-hosted “Live with Regis and Kathie Lee” for 12 years from 1988 until she left in 2000.

This article originally appeared in the New York Post.Don McLean rose to fame when he first sang about the end of rock ’n’ roll’s innocence in his 1971 hit “American Pie.” These days, the rocker is singing some new tunes.

The 72-year-old singer/songwriter has released his 19th studio album titled “Botanical Gardens.” It's his first in eight years. He spoke with Fox News about his latest release, inspiring both Elvis Presley and Johnny Cash, as well as why “American Pie” continues to resonate with listeners today.

Fox News: How did Australia inspire "Botanical Gardens?"

Don McLean: I used to take walks in the gardens near the Sydney Opera House. And really, when I was there, I never thought much of it. But later on, the idea occurred to me that I would have these fantasies about being young… which I wrote in these songs. When I decided to escape New York City to visit these gardens, that’s when the idea for the songs really took shape.

Fox News: What has been the biggest challenge that you faced with this album?

McLean: I didn’t have a record deal so I just started making the record because I felt like doing it. One song led to another. And then all of a sudden, my agent from England called and said he got me this really great deal with BMG, which kind of turned me on and made me work even harder to get this job done. It was not easy… I have to fight for everything I get.

Fox News: You previously mentioned that the idea of romance in music is dead.

McLean: I just don’t think people write about romance. They don’t write about the sadness of breaking up. They don’t do the songs we used to write about. The emotional feelings? I think people are pretty flat emotionally.

I think a lot of people are on drugs. They’re on Ritalin if they’re in school and they run around too much. Then they’re on Prozac if they feel too much... It's prescribed naturally by the doctor. So I think emotionally we were a lot more authentic than we are now. I don’t hear this kind of emotion in songs… I’m not saying we don’t have feelings. We do have feelings, God knows. But I don’t hear a lot of it expressed in musical terms anymore.

Fox News: What do you think is the secret behind the lasting success of "American Pie?"

McLean: The secret is that people love it and I don’t really know how you measure that or figure that out. They liked it from the very beginning and they have always liked it.

My songs kept me afloat because sometimes a lot of my musical style and the things that I’ve written have been very out of favor with what was going on. And I have been ignored for years at a time. That never bothered me at all. I’ll... come into focus and people say very nice things. And then my career moves ahead a notch or two. And so, that’s where we are now. But I’m always working and I’ve always had acceptance on a certain level by my audience.

Fox News: What keeps you going?

McLean: I really don’t think there’s anything else that I could do that would come close to singing and doing it well on stage. I keep myself in reasonably good condition so I can do that, which is another challenge. I can’t let myself get to 300 pounds. I can’t over-drink or smoke or do any of those things. Not that I might necessarily do that. But I’m just saying, people let themselves go. They figure, "Oh well, I’m 65. It’s time to die now." I don’t think that way. I don’t see myself as any particular age.

Fox News: It’s been said Johnny Cash wrote "I Wish I Could Yodel" after hearing you sing. Is that true?

McLean: I visited Johnny Cash and I went to his house. I was there for two days. He had this little recording studio and I sang a version of "Lovesick Blues" where I yodel quite a bit. Cash liked it a lot and then he quickly wrote "I Wish I Could Yodel." So yes, that song came from the encounter he had with me.

Fox News: Elvis Presley also performed "And I Loved You So" in nearly every live performance before his death. How does it feel to have had such an impact on someone like Elvis, especially towards the end of his life?

McLean: It means a great deal to me that I was able to give him something that he could use and that he enjoyed singing in what obviously was a very dark final year where he was clearly struggling to find out where he was going to go next. Struggling with addiction and struggling with looks and his weight.

I know when I get a bad picture taken of me, I don’t like it. So I could imagine with Elvis. He had so many bad pictures taken of him when he was overweight. That probably killed him because he was such a creature of his own beauty. He always looked good in every picture. And those last two years of his life, I think that’s when it all really went to h--l.

Fox News: A diverse group of artists has performed your music over the years, including Madonna. What’s your take on this?

McLean: Anytime someone does one of my songs, whether it’s a famous person or a young person I don’t know, I’m always honored and delighted. I never take any of this stuff for granted. I’m not a hardcore professional about this stuff. I’m always a bit of an amateur, marveling at other people.

It’s always been that way since the very beginning. I’m very happy that each new generation seems to find songs of mine to do. That’s a thrill. I haven’t really been on the inside of my career. I’ve always been an outsider. I’ve had trouble with record labels — just all kind of difficulty making albums… It was never easy. So it’s always nice when you win.

Fox News: Who surprised you the most?

McLean: Tupac Shakur apparently really loved "Vincent." He loved what I did, so that was a big surprise. His mother insisted that "Vincent" and a reference to me and my music be in his documentary.

"Vincent" was a part of his life. That to me is a wonderful thing when you can cross these boundaries between musical styles and cultures and have something that matters to all kinds of people, not just one segment of the population. That’s a very beautiful thing. That’s an important thing.Paul Lynde may be recognized as a television icon and beloved performer on game show “The Hollywood Squares,” but his real dream was to become a celebrated Hollywood star.

Cathy Rudolph, a close friend of the late actor, published a tell-all in 2013 titled “Paul Lynde: A Biography – His Life, His Love(s) and His Laughter,” which featured a foreword by “Hollywood Squares” host Peter Marshall.

CUE THE NOSTALGIA! FAVORITE TV REUNIONS

Rudolph will be reflecting on Lynde’s life and career at the Mid-Atlantic Nostalgia Convention being held September 13-15 in Maryland.

Lynde died in 1982 at age 55 from a heart attack.

“He was a frustrated actor,” Rudolph told Closer Weekly. “He really wanted to be a movie star; that was his dream. That’s why he bought a house that Errol Flynn once owned – he wanted a home like a movie star should have, but he wasn’t one.

"That was his heartbreak. He would say to me, ‘I’m on these small little TVs. People think they know you because they watch you every day; you’re in their homes. I’m on seven times a week with ‘Hollywood Squares,’ and shows like ‘I Dream of Jeannie’ and ‘Bewitched.’ Everybody thinks they know you and they’ll approach you. If it’s a big movie star, they would never approach you.’”

Lynde found fame on numerous TV shows, and he never took the admiration he felt from fans for granted.

“… At the same time, he wanted everybody to notice him,” said Rudolph. “If you wanted his autograph, there was nothing more gratifying for him than to stop and hear somebody say something that made him feel good.

"That’s why he said he would stay after every show two hours just to sign autographs and talk to people. He said, ‘What’s more wonderful than hearing 100 people telling you over and over again how great you are?’ If he was a movie star, he wouldn’t have that, but the reality is that he needed it. He needed his audience. The fact that people loved him was the part of his life that filled the loneliness.”

Perhaps Lynde was hoping becoming a big screen legend would help him overcome his painful past. The magazine noted that growing up, the Ohio native struggled with insecurities concerning his weight and sexuality.

Those feelings of isolation would reportedly plague him throughout his life.

“… When Paul drank too much, he could be vicious and cruel and, as a result, he lost a lot of friends,” claimed Rudolph. “Part of all that came from the fact that he was jealous of a lot of people who were getting better parts. I also think being gay and having to hide it frustrated him.

"He was very lonely and continually pushed people away, though I don’t think he realized that or he couldn’t understand it. I also think he had issues from when he was a child. He was obese – 250 pounds by the time he graduated high school – and had no love life either way. He was just unhappy; I’m guessing he fed himself to fill other needs that he had.”

Rudolph recalled a time when Lynde described his brothers as “baby of the family,” “the athlete,” or “the brains,” whereas he “was the nothing.”

“That feeling from him probably explained it more than anything,” said Rudolph. “Then, as he got older, he was still unable to find the love of his life, and still not getting the Academy Award or whatever he needed to feel good.”

Despite his private struggles, viewers still loved Lynde. He charmed audiences across the country in shows, such as “The Patty Duke Show,” “The Munsters,” “The Flying Nun” and “Gidget." And playing Elizabeth Montgomery’s uncle on “Bewitched” from 1964 until 1972 allowed his comedic talent to shine.

“He used to say to me, ‘I was only on the show 11 times; they must have run a lot of reruns because everybody calls me Uncle Arthur when I go on the street,’” said Rudolph. “The kids especially. And he loved it.”

However, Lynde may not have been all too thrilled about the character Serena, which was played by real-life friend Montgomery.

“He didn’t like anybody to upstage him,” said Rudolph. “He would say to me, ‘There’s nothing worse than me being on stage with kids or a dog, or any animal, because they upstage you,’ and he wanted to be the center of attention.

"The character of Serena was the same thing because she started getting funnier lines than him. She became her own little character, which Elizabeth invented herself because she didn’t want to be the pretty housewife all the time. She wanted to be a little bit wild with wigs, short skirts and makeup… Serena was a pretty powerful character, which made him insecure.”

Lynde died over 30 years ago, but Rudolph insisted his legacy still lives on. And while he wasn’t always popular with other actors when cameras stopped rolling, they couldn’t deny his unforgettable charisma and ability to make viewers smile.

“With Paul, if he didn’t like you he didn’t like you, but every once in a while he would open up his heart,” said Rudolph. “You just have to know how to get to his heart.”Best and worst celebrity beach bodies (okay mostly best)

It is very hard to find stars with bad bodies who frequent beaches. But we still try. Kind of.

http://www.foxnews.com/">Fox News

http://www.foxnews.com/

Riley Keogh: Best Actress Riley Keough, also known as Elvis Presley's granddaughter, shared a bikini selfie on Instagram while in Hawaii. For more photos of Keough, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) riley-keogh:-best

Kim Kardashian: Best Reality TV star Kim Kardashian proudly showed off her bikini body while vacationing in Turks and Caicos. For more photos of Kardashian, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) kim-kardashian:-best

Olivia Culpo: Best



Olivia Culpo happily swam with sharks while flaunting her bikini body in the Bahamas. The beauty queen was vacationing with NFL wide receiver Danny Amendola. For more photos of Culpo, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) olivia-culpo:-best

Iskra Lawrence: Best Plus-size model Iskra Lawrence looked stunning in a one-piece bathing suit while visiting Tulum, Mexico.

(Splash) iskra-lawrence:-best

Lais Ribeiro: Best Victoria's Secret Angel and Sports Illustrated Swimsuit stunner Lais Ribeiro shows off her beach body during an afternoon dip in the ocean in Miami.

(Splash) lais-ribeiro:-best

Kelly Ripa: Best Kelly Ripa showed off her toned beach body when she spent some downtime from shooting "Live" in the Bahamas. See more photos of Ripa's beach day here. (Splash) kelly-ripa:-best

Brooke Burke-Charvet: Best Former "Dancing with the Stars" co-host Brooke Burke-Charvet flashed her toned bikini body in Malibu to promote her new fitness app. For more photos of Burke-Charvet, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) brooke-burke-charvet:-best

Taylor Hill: Best Victoria's Secret model Taylor Hill has been getting plenty of sun while vacationing in the Eleuthera Island of the Bahamas. The runway star made sure to pose in a teeny tiny white bikini for Instagram. For more photos of Hill, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) taylor-hill:-best

Charlotte McKinney: Best GUESS Girl Charlotte McKinney was happily enjoying a sun-soaked vacation getaway during the wintry months. The model made sure to rock a white hot bikini that enhanced her famous figure. For more photos of McKinney, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) charlotte-mckinney:-best

Sofia Vergara: Best Sofia Vergara has been enjoying a sun-soaked vacation getaway in Mexico with her husband, "Magic Mike" star Joe Manganiello. For more photos of the "Modern Family" actress, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) sofia-vergara:-best

LeAnn Rimes: Best Country crooner LeAnn Rimes rocked a swimsuit that proudly showed off her curves while enjoying a romantic getaway in Mexico with her husband, actor Eddie Cibrian. For more photos of the 35-year-old singer, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) leann-rimes:-best

Tara Reid: Worst Tara Reid (left) appeared dangerously skinny as she sported a bikini and tiny denim shorts while vacationing in Tulum, Mexico with a friend. The American actress, best known for appearing in "American Pie" and "Sharknado," is 42. MORE: TARA REID HITS RED CARPET WITH WHOLE NEW LOOK (Backgrid) tara-reid:-worst

Lady Gaga MORE: SEXIEST CELEBRITY BIKINI BODIES Lady Gaga revealed her famous assets (and tattoos) while enjoying a beach getaway to kick off the New Year. The singer, whose real name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, is 31. (Twitter) lady-gaga

Alessandra Ambrosio: Best There's a reason why Alessandra Ambrosio has developed such a successful, lasting career as a Victoria's Secret Angel. The 36-year-old mother of two was spotted having a good time in her native Brazil. (Splash) alessandra-ambrosio:-best

Rebecca Gayheart: Best Rebecca Gayheart kicked off 2018 with some winter sun in Oahu Hawaii. The 46 year-old "Ugly Betty" actress looked stunning in a bikini while chatting with friends on the beach. (Splash) rebecca-gayheart:-best

Kelsea Ballerini: Best Kelsea Ballerini has been happily sharing photos from her honeymoon with new hubby, fellow country singer Morgan Evans, on Instagram. The swimsuit-clad 24-year-old is relaxing in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. For more photos of Ballerini, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) kelsea-ballerini:-best

Katharine McPhee: Best MORE: SEXIEST CELEBRITY BIKINI BODS Katharine McPhee showed off her beach-ready bikini body while out vacationing in Mexico. The singer/actress, who first found fame as an "American Idol" contestant, is 33. (MOVI Inc.) katharine-mcphee:-best

Charlize Theron: Best Charlize Theron showcased her bikini body during Thanksgiving when she enjoyed a sunny getaway in Los Cabos, Mexico, with her kids. (Splash) charlize-theron:-best

Tania Marie: Best Italian Playboy Model Tania Marie showed off her bikini body while doing a photoshoot in Venice Beach, California. (Splash) tania-marie:-best

Bella Thorne: Best Bella Thorne is ready to hit the waves! The 20-year-old wore a skimpy bikini top in a behind-the-scenes snap from Liam Payne's "Bedroom Floor" music video. For more photos of Thorne, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) bella-thorne:-best

Hilary Duff: Best Hilary Duff's got it and she's flaunting it! The single mom donned a simple bikini while at the beach with her ex-husband Mike Comrie and their son Luca. Click here for more pics of Duff's beach outing. (MEGA The Media Agency) hilary-duff:-best

Natalie Pack: Best GUESS Girl Natalie Pack isn't shy about flaunting her bikini body on Instagram with a selfie. For more photos of the model, visit HollywoodLife.com (Instagram) natalie-pack:-best

Christina El Moussa: Best Christina El Moussa spent the day on a boat with her new beau Doug Spedding. The pair were caught canoodling on the El Moussa’s boat “Bad Decisions” formally known as “Flips and Flops” in Newport, California. Click here for more pics of Christina and Doug's romantic date. (Mr Plow/Backgrid) christina-el-moussa:-best

Lindsay Lohan: Worst MORE: LINDSAY LOHAN CELEBRATES 31ST BIRTHDAY IN GREECE Lindsay Lohan was spotted in Mykonos trying to soak up the sun. (Pacific Coast News) lindsay-lohan:-worst

Kate Compton: Best Model Kate Compton sizzled on the beach in a sexy, strappy black one piece. But the model's beach day was for work -- she spent the day modeling for a photo shoot with fashion photographer Malachi Banales in Malibu, California. (Splash) kate-compton:-best

Danica Patrick: Best Danica Patrick proved she's got moves and a rocking bod. The race car driver donned a bikini to show off her impressive handstand skills. "I have been craving this playful day by the pool," the star wrote. Click here for more celebrity pics on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) danica-patrick:-best

Natalia Borges and some guy: Best Sports Illustrated Swimsuit model Natalia Borges was seen teaching her puppy how to swim at Miami beach. She showered her boyfriend and dog with kisses as they frolicked in the sea together. (Splash) natalia-borges-and-some-guy:-best

Olivia Munn: Best Newly-single Olivia Munn headed to the Beach Enclave North Shore Villa in Turks & Caicos to celebrate her birthday. She thanked Booking.com on her Instagram account for sending her on the vacay. During the trip, she showed off her fit figure in a low-cut one-piece. Does Aaron Rodgers know what he's missing? (Courtesy of Booking.com) olivia-munn:-best

Kristin Cavallari: Best Kristin Cavallari unveiled her summer-ready bikini body on Instagram. "Feeling like a new woman #ISurvivedTheDetox," captioned the 30-year-old former "Laguna Beach" star. Click here for more photos of Cavallari on HollywoodLife.com. (Instagram) kristin-cavallari:-best

Nicole Scherzinger: Best Nicole Scherzinger showed off her best moves by the pool in Los Angeles. "There's beauty in letting go...Let go of your fear and inhibitions," the singer captioned her picture. Click here for more pics of the former Pussycat Doll member on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) nicole-scherzinger:-best

CJ Franco: Best All work, all play? Model CJ Franco looked like she was having fun while donning a white bathing suit for a Sports Illustrated shoot in Malibu. (Splash) cj-franco:-best

"Top Chef" Padma Lakshmi: Best The 46-year-old "Top Chef" host and famous foodie flaunted her bikini body on Instagram. Click here for more pics of the star on HollywoodLife.com (Instagram.com/padmalakshmi) "top-chef"-padma-lakshmi:-best

Kourtney Kardashian and Kendall Jenner: Best Sister, sister. Kourtney Kardashian (left) and her younger sister Kendall Jenner soaked up the sun on a boat while in Cannes. "Romy and Michele Takes Cannes," Kardashian captured the pic. The mom-of-three reportedly brought along her much younger beau on the trip. Click here for more pics of Kardashian on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) kourtney-kardashian-and-kendall-jenner:-best

Ashley Graham: Best Sports Illustrated swimsuit model Ashley Graham channeled Pamela Anderson with her "Baywatch"-inspired swimsuit. The piece is from the 29-year-old's newest Swimsuits For All campaign. (Swimsuits For All) ashley-graham:-best

Joy Corrigan: Best The Sports Illustrated swimsuit model flaunted her bikini-ready figure during a sizzling photoshoot in Miami. (Splash) joy-corrigan:-best

Mama June: Best Mama June showed off her new figure in a "Baywatch" inspired photo shoot. The reality star channeled her inner Pamela Anderson in the iconic red bathing suit. Click here for more pics of Mama June's amazing transformation (Splash) mama-june:-best

Jessie James Decker: Best Jessie James Decker showed off her newly-toned bikini bod thanks to the South Beach Diet. The busy mom-of-two said a balance of diet and exercise helped her get into the best shape of her life. "When I was younger, it was easier to stay in shape. But once I had children, everything changed," she said in a press release. (South Beach Diet) jessie-james-decker:-best

Lisa Rinna: 'I am 53' The reality TV star and wife of actor Harry Hamlin took a selfie of her bikini body while enjoying spring break in Mexico on April 10, 2017. Visit HollywoodLife.com for more photos of Rinna (Instagram) lisa-rinna:-'i-am-53'

Kate Hudson: Best Kate Hudson showed off her insane bikini body while on a vacation in with her kids in in Hawaii. (Splash News) kate-hudson:-best

Porsha Williams: Best Real Housewives of Atlanta star Porsha Williams recently vacationed AAA Four Diamond Moon Palace Jamaica Grande in Ocho Rios, Jamaica. Porsha stripped down to a revealing swimsuit while at the resort to show off her fit beach bod. (Dreamart/Palace Resorts) porsha-williams:-best

Maria Menounos: Best Maria Menounos rocked a black-and-white striped bikini. She showed off her toned abs and glutes on Instagram. Click here for more pics of the star on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) maria-menounos:-best

Kendra Wilkinson: Best Hugh Hughner's ex posed for a sexy poolside snap showing off her fit figure in a rainbow bikini. Click here for more pics of Kendra on Hollywoodlife.com (Instagram) kendra-wilkinson:-best

Nina Agdal: Best Danish beauty Nina Agdal donned a strappy, red bathing suit for the 2017 Sports Illusrated Swimsuit Edition . Her boyfriend Leonardo DiCaprio is one lucky guy! (Ruven Afanador/Sports Illustrated) nina-agdal:-best

Bella Hadid: Best Bella Hadid flaunts her bikini body on Instagram. The model smiled with her legs stretched out and appeared to be in good spirits while lounging on the beach. Click here for more pics of Hadid on Hollywoodlife.com. (Instagram) bella-hadid:-best

Adam Sandler: Worst The 'Happy Gilmore' star may be helping his kids eat too many of their Happy Meals. (X17online.com) adam-sandler:-worst

Melissa Joan Hart: Best Melissa Joan Hart is proud of maintaining her 40 pound weight loss using Nutrisystem and is looking forward to swimsuit season. "It's been awesome trying on different swimsuits and feeling confident. This red suit is one of my favorites – it’s sexy and playful, but still a little reserved. Perfect for an almost 40 year old!" Hart said. (Nutrisystem) melissa-joan-hart:-best

Selena Gomez: Best Selena shared a super sexy selfie of herself wearing a bikini and teased, "comin soon." Perhaps the singer has a new photoshoot coming out or a music video. Click here for more pictures of Gomez. (Instagram) selena-gomez:-best

Candice Swanepoel: Best All in a day's work. Model Candice Swanepoel looked fierce at Victoria's Secret bikini photoshoot in St. Barts. Click here for more of Hollywood's hot bikini bods. (Splash) candice-swanepoel:-best

Lindsey Vonn: Best Click here for more of Hollywood's hottest bikini bodies. Achieving Lindsey Vonn's bikini body is tough work. The athlete didn't let a foot injury or a vacation get in the way of her exercise. "Friends don't let friends miss ab day!" she wrote on Instagram (Instagram) lindsey-vonn:-best

Sylvie van der Vaart: Best Just because we had to look up who Sylvie van der Vaart is (Dutch TV personality) doesn't make the 36-year-old mom's beach body any less worthy. Go to X17 for more pics of stars on the beach. (Spread/X17online.com) sylvie-van-der-vaart:-best

Kellie Pickler: Best Pickler went from country girl to cabana girl. The singer posted a picture of herself getting some R&R on a girl's trip with fellow country singer Jana Kramer. Click here for more pictures of Kellie (Instagram) kellie-pickler:-best

Paris Hilton: Best Paris celebrated July 4 soaking up some sun in a black, stringy one-piece. Click here to see more pictures of the hotel heiress from X17online.com (X17online) paris-hilton:-best

Kate Walsh: Best Grey's Anatomy' actress Kate Walsh showing off her body on the beach in Miami Beach. Click here for more sexy Kate pics (Splash) kate-walsh:-best

Ireland Baldwin: Best Alec's daughter told Galore magazine that forgoing Cup of Noodles was key to her bangin' bikini bod. Having half Kim Basinger's genes doesn't hurt either. (Jacog Dekat/Galore) ireland-baldwin:-best

Heidi Klum: Best Klum's a cut above the rest. The model and mom of four showed off her bikini-ready body in a black cut-out one-piece on the cover of Us Weekly. How does she stay in shape? "I don't eat bagels—no way!" she told the magazine . "A bagel is basically a cardboard box…Usually I'll have a smoothie in the morning." (Us Weekly) heidi-klum:-best

Ashley Tisdale and Vanessa Hudgens: Best Former Disney costars Tisdale (R) and Hudgens celebrated Tisdale's upcoming wedding in style. The pair showed off their toned tummies in teeny bikinis on a huge yacht in Miami. Click here for more photos from Tisdale's bachelorette party. (Splash) ashley-tisdale-and-vanessa-hudgens:-best

Shemar Moore: Best When he's not fighting for justice on "Criminal Minds," this actor is clearly putting in time at the gym. Keep on flexing, Shemar. See more photos of Shemar at X17online.com. (MrPixx/X17online.com) shemar-moore:-best

Shauna Sand: Best Sand wore an itsy bitsy teenie weenie teal bikini for a day of fun in the sun. For more pictures of the Playboy Playmate, visit X17online.com (X17online) shauna-sand:-best

Lisa Hochstein: Best Joanna Krupa isn't the only 'Miami' star to wow 'em on the beach. Lisa Hochstein does just fine herself, thank you very much. Click for 13 more pics of Lisa Hochstein. (Splash) lisa-hochstein:-best

Ashley Benson: Best Summer can't come soon enough for this "Spring Breakers" star. Benson, left, shared a sultry poolside seflie of her and a friend trying to get a tan. "Trying to look tan haha," she wrote on Instagram Click here for more sexy "Spring Breakers" photos. (Instagram) ashley-benson:-best

Nina Agdal and Josh Henderson: Best Op 's Spring/Summer 2014 marketing campaign features Sports Illustrated Swimsuit cover model Nina Agdal, actor Josh Henderson, and model/actress Cailin Russo. This is Nina and Josh. They are quite fit. (Op.com) nina-agdal-and-josh-henderson:-best

Celina Jade: Best "Arrow" star Celina Jade stripped down to a bikini for a Maxim shoot. The Hong Kong native revealed that she's also a singer, songwriter and trained martial artist. (Maxim) celina-jade:-best

Kris Jenner: Best Whether it's been surgically altered or not, Kris Jenner's beach body at 58 is just amazing. Like mother, like daughter. Click here for more hot bikini pics from ET (Instagram) kris-jenner:-best

Marg Helgenberger: Best There's no crime in 'CSI' star Marg Helgenberger hitting the beach in a bikini. Get it? Crime? 'CSI'? Good stuff. Go to X17 for more pics of Marg strutting her stuff. (X17) marg-helgenberger:-best

Rihanna: Best RiRi packs her beach attire with lots of attitude. Click here for more pics of Rihanna. (X17) rihanna:-best

Kate Upton: Best Supermodel Kate Upton showed off her clearly awesome beach body in the pages of Sports Illustrated as their swimsuit issue covergirl... twice. (Derek Kettela/Sports Illustrated ) kate-upton:-best

Amanda Cerny: Best There's a reason Amanda Cerny landed her gig as a Playboy Playmate. She was Miss October 2011. Click here for more pics of Amanda (RumoerFix/FlameFlyNet) amanda-cerny:-best

Bar Refaeli: Best International supermodel Bar Refaeli showed off her smoking hot body on the beaches of Israel. Click here to see the hottest S.I. Swimsuit covers (Instagram) bar-refaeli:-best

Gabrielle Union: Best Dwyane Wade is one lucky guy. The Miami Heat star's girlfriend shared this picture of her sexy bikini body just before her 41st birthday. Click here to see more hot star bikini pics (Instagram) gabrielle-union:-best

Courtney Stodden: Best Courtney may not be at the beach in this photo, but when you look like that, you can wear a bikini anywhere you want. See more photos of Courtney at X17online.com. (X17online.com) courtney-stodden:-best

Karrueche Tran: Best She used to be in a love triangle with Rihanna and Chris Brown, but Karrueche holds her own when it comes to rocking a hot beach body. See more photos of Karrueche at X17Online.com. (X17online.com) karrueche-tran:-best

Emmanuelle Chriqui: Best The Canadian actress looked smoking hot in a itsby bitsy yellow bikini while splashing around with boyfriend Adrian Bellani in Miami. See more photos of their day at the beach at x17online.com (X17online.com) emmanuelle-chriqui:-best

Bethenny Frankel: Best Former "Real Housewives of New York" star and Skinny Girl founder Bethenny Frankel reveals the her super toned bikini body. Click here for more pics of Bethenny surfing. (X17) bethenny-frankel:-best

Holly Madison: Best Madison said she was 'nearly back to her pre-baby figure' four months after the birth of her daughter. She looks all the way back to us. Go to Celebuzz for more Madison bikini pics. (MOVI Inc.) holly-madison:-best

Lauren Stoner: Best Okay, so we're not even sure who this is, but with a body like that, does it even matter? For the record, she was on a reality show in 2010 called "The Spin Crowd." For more pics of Lauren, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) lauren-stoner:-best

Melody Thornton: X17 The former Pussycat Dolls singer looks very hot in Miami Beach. For more pics of Melody, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) melody-thornton:-x17

Kendall Jenner: Best The reality-star-turned-model shows off her patriotism the only way she knows how. For more pics of Kendall, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) kendall-jenner:-best

Farrah Abraham: Best The "Teen Mom" star turned porn star just had her implants upped a size, from C to D. Busy busy busy. Click for more Farrah pics. (RumorFix) farrah-abraham:-best

Reese Witherspoon: Best While celebrating the Fourth of July with her son and husband, Reese opted to cover up at the beach. The new mom still looks fabulous. Click here for more from X17. (X17) reese-witherspoon:-best

Maria Shriver: Worst Maria Shriver: WorstClick here for more photos from X17 We have to say, at 57, Maria Shriver looks pretty good... from the front. But we wish she would have paired her figure-flattering one piece swimsuit with a sarong or a cover-up. (X17) maria-shriver:-worst

Victoria Silvstedt: Best The 38-year-old former Playboy bunny showed off her beach body at the Cannes Film Festival. See more photos of Victoria in her bikini at x17online.com (X17) victoria-silvstedt:-best

Alison Brie: Best Alison Brie: BestMore Hot Shots of Alison Brie. Brie told Esquire she loved her agents because they wouldn't let her do any parts that involved nudity. Swimsuits? Not a problem. Why Esquire loves Alison Brie. (Esquire) alison-brie:-best

Katrina Bowden: Best Of her bikini style the "30 Rock" star says, “I love mixing and matching the brightly colored bikinis, tank tops and shorts. I like to create my own individual beach style.” You can check out more behind the scenes footage here. (Invision/AP) katrina-bowden:-best

Kellan Lutz: Best "One of my favorite styles is the hybrid short," says the ripped star. "They dry quickly so you can wear them in the water, then out around town.” You can check out more behind the scenes footage here. (Omar Vega/Invision for Iconix/AP) kellan-lutz:-best

Nicole Richie: Best It's been a while since we've seen Nicole Richie look this good - and healthy. For more pics of Nicole, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) nicole-richie:-best

Jessica Alba: Best Alba stripped down to her string bikini to enjoy the water in St. Barth's with her husband Cash Warren, a former stage hand on one of her movie sets, also known as the luckiest man in the world. HOT SHOTS: Tons more pics of Alba on the beach. (X17) jessica-alba:-best

Jennie Garth: Best Garth celebrated her 41st birthday with her kids at Garza Blanca Preserve Resort in Puerto Vallarta and Spa, looking like a woman half her age. X17: See more pics of Jen on the beach. (X17Online) jennie-garth:-best

Jennifer Love Hewitt: Best The actress has gone up and down in size over the years, but on the March 2013 issue of Shape, she looks quite good a bikini. (AMI) jennifer-love-hewitt:-best

Beyonce: Best The singer had a baby not long before shooting this cover. Bow down. (GQ) beyonce:-best

Naomi Watts: Best With a body like that, it's hard to believe that Naomi has two kids! For more pics of Naomi, go to x17online.com. (AlphaX/X17online.com) naomi-watts:-best

Stephanie Seymour: Best The former model has fun in the sun in St. Barth in both a one and two-piece. That's range. HOT SHOTS: More Seymour beach pics. (X17) stephanie-seymour:-best

Claudia Galanti: Best The Paraguayan stunner leaves little to the imagination in Miami. Muy bueno. HOT SHOTS: Galanti turns heads. (X17) claudia-galanti:-best

Jennifer Aniston: Best Jen Aniston is looking fit and fabulous on her Mexican vacation with Justin Theroux. More photos of Jen on the beach (RumorFix) jennifer-aniston:-best

Jada Pinkett Smith: Best Will Smith's lovely wife went out for a beach run. So that's how she stays in perfect shape! HOT SHOTS: Jada on the beach. (RumorFix.com) jada-pinkett-smith:-best

Cindy Crawford: Best The supermodel, born in 1966, is still super-modeling. Cindy Crawford: BestNow that's impressive. (Shape) cindy-crawford:-best

Courtney Cox: Best "Cougar Town" star showed off her bikini body while enjoying a Corona in Miami. How does our favorite "Friend" stay in great shape? She told New Beauty magazine that she follows a light diet plan. She skips breakfast and has a coffee instead, chicken salad for lunch and meat and vegetables for dinner. Yep, that'll do it. Thestar showed off her bikini body while enjoying a Corona in Miami. How does our favorite "Friend" stay in great shape? She told New Beauty magazine that she follows a light diet plan. She skips breakfast and has a coffee instead, chicken salad for lunch and meat and vegetables for dinner. Yep, that'll do it. HOT SHOTS: Cox's hot bikini bod. (RumorFix.com) courtney-cox:-best

Jennifer Lawrence: Best The ''Hunger Games'' star turned heads in her light blue bikini. HOT SHOTS: Jennifer Lawrence bikinis in Hawaii. (RumorFix.com) jennifer-lawrence:-best

Katy Perry: Best The singer often shows off her figure in form-fitting dresses, so it's no surprise that she looks this good in a two-piece while on vacation in Miami. For more pics of Katy, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) katy-perry:-best

Demi and Rumer: Best HOT SHOTS: Rumer Willis. Demi Moore and daughter Rumer Willis have the kind of beach bodies Hollywood is known for. HOT SHOTS: Demi Moore (X17Online.com) demi-and-rumer:-best

Jon Favreau: Worst Jon looked like he had a blast at the beach with his family, but that T-shirt certainly isn't doing him any favors. Click here for more beach bod photos from RumorFix.com. (RumorFix.com ) jon-favreau:-worst

Best: Olivia Wilde Screen beauty Olivia Wilde looks great in movies, but she looks even better in a bikini on the beach! Click here for more Olivia photos. (FameFlynet) best:-olivia-wilde

Best: Whitney Port Her body is beach ready, but her taste in bikinis is lacking, troubling as she is a "fashion designer." At least on TV. For more pics of Whitney, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) best:-whitney-port

Best: Maria Menounous The sexy TV host obviously has enough free time to sneak in some beach time, and some workout time, too! Click here for more Maria photos from X17 Online. (X17 Online) best:-maria-menounous

Worst: Val Kilmer Finally a worst! Is that a park ranger, or former guy who played Jim Morrison? Click here for more Val pics. (X17 Online) worst:-val-kilmer

Ashley Tisdale: Best The young actress celebrated her birthday with boyfriend Scott Speer, sharing a kiss and playing in the ocean at her Malibu Birthday party. For more pics of Ashley, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) ashley-tisdale:-best

Ramona Singer: Worst The "Real Housewives of New York" star should have done a few extra crunches before donning her itsy bitsy bikini. (They do make something called a "one piece.") Ramona Singer: WorstFor more pics of Ramona, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) ramona-singer:-worst

Kelly Brook: Best Kelly Brook and Cannes: a good combination. Fore more pics of Kelly, go to x17online.com. (X17online.com) kelly-brook:-best

Russell Simmons: Worst Is this Russ' way of going incognito on the beach? For hot celeb beach pics go to X17Online.com. (X17) russell-simmons:-worst

David Hasselhoff: Worst Eek. Those late night cheeseburgers are beginning to show. For more on David go to X17Online. (X17online.com) david-hasselhoff:-worst

Jordana Brewster: Best The actress makes some great eye candy on the beach. For more on Jordana go to X17Online. (X17online.com) jordana-brewster:-best

Cameron Diaz: Best The sports-loving actress shows that a bit of sweat does the body good. For more pics of Cameron go to X17Online. (x17online.com) cameron-diaz:-best

Keira Knightly: Best The "Pirates of the Caribbean" star looks red hot in her string bikini. For more pics of Keira go to X17Online. (X17) keira-knightly:-best

Mario Lopez: Best AC Slater's body seems to be getting better with age. For more pics of Mario go to X17Online. (X17online.com) mario-lopez:-best

Kristen Bell: Best The "Hit and Run" star is a perfect example of how being a vegetarian does wonders for your body. For more pics of Kristen go to X17Online. (x17online.com) kristen-bell:-best

Kathy Griffin: Worst The comedian doesn't look great. For more pics of Kathy go to Celebuzz. (celebbuzz.com) kathy-griffin:-worst

Deena Cortese: Worst The "Jersey Shore" gal should consider trading in all those fruity cocktails for some Muscle Milk. For more pics of Deena go to Celebuzz. (celebbuzz.com) deena-cortese:-worstA video of a black man being denied use of the bathroom at Starbucks has emerged amid the controversy surrounding a similar incident that took place on Thursday, during which two black men were placed under arrest while waiting for a friend inside a Philadelphia Starbucks.

The footage, which was recorded by Brandon Ward at a Starbucks in Torrance, Calif., shows Ward asking a Starbucks employee why he was denied the key code for the store’s restroom after another man — who is white — had apparently been given the code moments earlier, despite not yet purchasing anything.

POLICE RELEASE CALL FROM PHILLY STARBUCKS EMPLOYEE

Ward, who told KABC-TV that the incident took place in January, told the station he was also waiting for a friend when he asked for the bathroom code. After being denied, he claims he even offered to buy something, but he was still refused.

Ward then says he witnessed a white man — who didn’t buy anything — being granted the bathroom code. He then filmed himself confirming as much with the man.

“Have you purchased anything in here today?” Ward filmed himself asking the white customer, who gives his name as Weston. The man then replies that he hasn’t, though he says he had planned to after leaving the restroom.

Ward subsequently walks over to confront a female Starbucks employee about the issue.

“This man right here says he hasn’t made a purchase yet — he’s in line to make a purchase — and you guys had gave him the code, right? Isn’t that what you did?” Ward is heard asking the employee.

The woman, who identifies herself as the store manager, denied giving the white man the code, and repeatedly asks Ward to stop filming.

“Is it my skin color?” Ward then asks to the staff and surrounding patrons. “I couldn’t use the bathroom but Weston could. I feel it may be my skin color.”

The footage ends as a security guard approaches ward.

STARBUCKS CLOSING 8,000 STORES TO CONDUCT 'RACIAL BIAS TRAINING'

Starbucks has already released a statement regarding Ward's experience to Fox News.

"Please know that we take this video and the commentary around it very seriously, and are working closely with the team to learn from our mistakes," a spokesman for Starbucks stated. "As you may have read in the letter from our CEO, we are fully investigating our store practices and guidelines across the company. In addition to our own review we will work with outside experts and community leaders understand and adopt best practices, including unconscious bias training."

Ward, however, told KABC he doesn't think much of the company's apologies, at least until the company instructs employees to "abide by [the same] guidelines for everyone."

"You can't sit here and segregate things, so you might as well put on the store with your policy, 'Whites Only,' at the end," he said.

Ward added that his clip only gained traction after in recent days, after the two men in Philadelphia were arrested on Thursday. Ward’s footage, for instance, was recently shared by activist Shaun King, where it has already been viewed more than 2 million times.

Starbucks, meanwhile, announced on Tuesday that 8,000 of its company-owned stores would be closing on the afternoon of May 29 in order to conduct “racial bias training” among other training procedures. The news came as a direct response to an incident on April 12, during which two black men were arrested while waiting for a friend inside a Philadelphia location of the coffee shop.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson had previously called the April 12 incident “reprehensible,” and confirmed that the company would soon be training workers to deal with “unconscious bias.” He also reportedly met with the two men and apologized in person.next

prev

California firefighter Nick Reeder was by his wife’s side on April 9, when she gave birth via scheduled C-section to their healthy twin girls. But shortly after, 37-year-old Amanda Sawyer told her husband she didn’t feel well and passed out. She was pronounced dead less than an hour later, the Fresno Bee reported.

Reeder is now mourning the wife he met four years ago online while also focusing on raising the five children left behind. The couple tied the knot in November after learning Sawyer was expecting twins, who are named Kelce and Kaia. The pregnancy was smooth, Reeder said, and their births went as planned, according to the Fresno Bee.

PARENTS OF UK TODDLER ON LIFE SUPPORT APPEAL LATEST COURT RULING

“She bopped them on the nose and had a few special moments with them,” he told the news outlet.

He said the doctors and nurses tried everything they could to save his wife.

“She was my rock,” the fire captain told the Fresno Bee.

Now the community is rallying around Reeder and he tends to the couple’s children. A GoFundMe page has raised nearly $40,000, while his firehouse set up a meal train.

“I can get through it,” he told ABC 30. “I can do it. I’m a fireman. I fix things. That’s what I do. So I’m going to be able to make this happen. I’m going to make this work, but it’s not going to be by myself.”Life both personally and professionally is busier than ever for Prince William, making it no surprise that the third in line to the throne and soon-to-be father of three has a new favorite spot for a quick bite.

At an entrepreneurship forum on April 16, the 35-year-old royal admitted that he’s recently become a fan of Nando’s, an international Mozambique-Portuguese-inspired fast food chain, having been won over by its famous flame-grilled spicy peri-peri chicken.

Circle around.//📷cred: @shwatz777 A post shared by Nando's PERi-PERi (@nandosusa) on Sep 26, 2017 at 9:10am PDT

WHOLE FOODS DISHWASHER PREPARES FOR NINTH EVEREST SUMMIT: ‘I CLIMB FOR ALL WOMEN’

“It’s very good,” the prince said of the dish to Nando’s founder Robert Brozin, who launched the chain in South Africa in 1987, at the event.

“This man here is your biggest fan, he’s introduced me to Nando’s,” Prince William further divulged, referring to his police protection officer. He joked that the protection officer is in fact so ardent about the company, “he should buy a stake in Nando’s.”

For his part, Brozin wasn’t fazed that the royal had eaten his food, as Nando’s boasts over 1,000 locations in nearly three dozen countries, USA Today reports.

DOMINO'S WILL NOW DELIVER PIZZA TO BEACHES, PARKS, AND OTHER 'UNEXPECTED' SITES

“I’m not surprised he’s eaten at Nando’s,” Brozen said, elaborating that “the beauty of Prince Harry and Prince William is that they’re really accessible and they are guys that go out a lot – I’m very happy that they’ve tried it,” People reports. Brozin further stated that he was “certain they would have tried it because they’re so accessible they’re people’s people, which is so nice."

Prince William’s admission comes as no surprise, as he and wife Kate Middleton have revealed that their go-to takeout order is curry. William has also said that while he is not a natural cook, he does enjoy experimenting in the kitchen.

“I do like cooking, but I’m not very good. I like a roast. So a bit of roast chicken or a steak,” he said in November 2017. “I like it medium rare. I like it quite alive.”

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSThe city of Phoenix is mourning the loss of one of its K-9 unit police dogs, who was killed at the end of a dramatic high speed pursuit through the city’s streets.

The dog, a 3-year-old Belgian Malinois named Bane, was attempting to subdue an alleged carjacker when he was killed by the suspect, who police found on top of the dog when they finally apprehended him. Police aren’t sure yet how the Bane was killed, but say that he wasn’t shot.

The 45-minute chase began when police attempted to stop a suspected serial car thief who they’d been tracking for weeks. Police haven’t revealed his name, but he and his female passenger fled and aerial units were called in to help with the pursuit.

The pair eventually abandoned the vehicle and allegedly carjacked another, then did the same thing again. They stole a white Lexus SUV that was followed by a Fox 10 news helicopter caputuring it on camera running lights, driving the wrong way down streets and taking to the light rail tracks in an effort to elude capture.

Only one accident was reported along the way before police were able to bring the vehicle to a stop using a spike strip. The suspect then pulled the vehicle in the driveway of a home and ran inside as the passenger surrendered to police.

There he hid in an attic when the decision was made to deploy Bane.

“We sent Bane in to do what the dogs do,” police chief Jeri Williams said after the incident.

“They are our protectors, our partners. It's definitely with heart that we lost Bane.”

Phoenix mayor Greg Stanton and many others honored Bane and offered condolences to his handler.

According to Fox 10 Phoenix, killing a police dog is a class six felony in Arizona that is punishable by up to a year in prison. The male suspect was taken to a hospital after his arrest, and police have not yet announced any of the charges he and his female passenger are facing.Ford is celebrating the 50th anniversary of its legendary Cobra Jet Mustang drag racer with a 2018 model that it promises will be the quickest Mustang ever.

The NHRA-approved coupe isn’t street legal, but comes race-ready with a supercharged 5.2-liter V8, 9-inch solid rear axle, re-designed suspension, custom roll cage, racing seats and a set of Weld wheels.

Ford will reveal its full design and additional specifications this summer, but says the car will be able to run mid-8-second quarter-miles at a trap speed over 150 mph.

Just 68 will be sold in red or white with optional retro-style 50th anniversary badges and graphics at a price that’s yet to be announced, but will likely be around $100,000.

That will be the biggest batch of Cobra Jets ever offered. Ford only built 50 of the 1968 original and each of the six that it made between 2008 and 2016.

And if drag racing’s not your thing, don’t worry. Ford is also introducing a NASCAR Cup version of the Mustang for next season, although it will be even harder to get your hands on one of those.CIA Director and Secretary of State-designate Mike Pompeo’s recent meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was an important step to lay the groundwork for the upcoming meeting planned between President Trump and Kim.

I fully support President Trump’s decision to hold this important meeting. Our president has established what was missing from U.S. policy toward North Korea for years: Credibility for the threat of use of force. Without that credibility, our diplomatic efforts have no teeth.

Thanks to President Trump’s firm stand in support of sanctions against North Korea, that nation’s rogue regime’s back is against the wall and it appears Kim is beginning to recognize the weakness of his position. We have a real opportunity for dialogue with North Korea as a result.

I just returned from China and South Korea, places I lived and worked throughout my previous business career. President Trump’s tough rhetoric and strong stance on North Korea were praised in both China and South Korea.

Within a 24-hour period during my trip, I looked into North Korea from two different perspectives.

First, in Dandong, China, we stood on the Broken Bridge, a relic of the Korean War. A few yards away was the Sino-Korean Friendship Bridge, which Kim’s train crossed a few days before our visit on his trip to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing.

The next day we were at the demilitarized zone, north of Seoul, facing North Korean troops on the border and staring at bullet holes from last November’s defection of a North Korean soldier.

In many of our meetings with U.S. diplomatic personnel, Chinese and Korean officials, and even North Korean defectors there was a common message: President Trump’s sanctions are working.

The entire charm offensive North Korea has been on as of late is the direct result of unprecedented economic and political pressure brought about due to President Trump. That was evident when we arrived in Beijing: our visit coincided with Kim’s first official trip out of the country to meet with President Xi.

At the end of our trip the United Nations announced it was blacklisting dozens of ships and shipping companies over North Korea’s oil and coal smuggling. That action followed a series of United Nations Security Council Resolutions last year targeting North Korean forced labor and cutting off key exports from the North.

These are positive steps. We also recognized other positive steps on our trip. We thanked China for its backing at the Security Council and for its improved enforcement efforts regarding North Korea sanctions.

We also thanked South Korea for its support of President Trump’s maximum pressure approach.

And we also carried a clear message: in America, we are all aligned in our firm resolve to denuclearize the Korean Peninsula.

China is improving its enforcement efforts for the economic sanctions on North Korea and has provided more support at the U.N., but more can still be done.

China should further cut oil sales and transfers to North Korea. China should also increase efforts to halt ship-to-ship transfers of coal and seafood to and from North Korea.

Together, we should also look for additional actions at the U.N. to sanction North Korea’s state-run airline, Air Koryo, which Kim’s regime has used to skirt sanctions on jet fuel.

When we met with South Korean Prime Minister Lee Nak-yeon, he described Kim’s situation with a Korean proverb: Kim is riding the back of a tiger. Riding a tiger’s back is dangerous, but it is even scarier to face the tiger when you dismount.

Moving forward, we must remember what got us to this point: President Trump’s maximum pressure campaign. We should recognize and act on the additional efforts to keep up the pressure. The U.S. Senate should also move swiftly to confirm Mike Pompeo as secretary of state, given the critical talks at hand.

Ahead of the proposed meeting between Kim and President Trump, which the president said will likely take place in June, America will do its part. The international community must do the same to achieve the best possible outcome. With China’s cooperation and the support of the international community, we will denuclearize the Korean Peninsula.Last week, Cardi B guest-hosted the “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,” and the last three people on the planet who hadn’t heard of her got to know the star — and the “only in New York” character of her meteoric rise.

Born Belcalis Almanzar in The Bronx, mostly raised in Washington Heights, Cardi’s everywhere right now. Her first single “Bodak Yellow” hit No. 1 on the Billboard charts, something only one other female solo rapper has ever achieved.

She’s also the only rapper in history to have all three of her first singles in the Billboard Top 10 at the same time. She’s engaged to the rapper Offset and announced her pregnancy in dramatic fashion while performing on “Saturday Night Live” last weekend.

Cardi shot to fame on the VH1 reality show “Love & Hip Hop” when she was a former stripper trying to get in the New York City music scene. She participated in the antics of the show like everyone else, hooking up with guys and throwing her shoe at a detractor.

She became a fan favorite, with her every expression and utterance being turned into a GIF. Every Monday night, Twitter would explode with Cardi love. The joke of the “Love & Hip Hop” franchise is that most of the people on the show are constantly in the studio yet we rarely hear their songs on the radio. Cardi smashed that.

“I’m just a regular, degular, shmegular girl from The Bronx,” Cardi said in one episode. That’s partially true. Cardi B may be down to earth but her story is highly irregular. She was a member of the Bloods who credits stripping, and her focus on getting money (or “shmoney” as she calls it), on getting her out of the gang. She doesn’t deny it but also doesn’t recommend it. “Being in a gang don’t make you not one dollar,” she says.

She has not just her own accent but her own language — both quintessentially New Yawk. She talks fast and raps fast. She sounds like she’s arguing. She’s in a hurry. On an episode of “Love & Hip Hop,” Cardi tells a friend that her manager wants her to take classes to get rid of her accent. Thankfully, she refused.

“I love hearing your voice, I love everything you do,” said Jimmy Fallon when she guest-hosted alongside him. So does everyone else.

Last year, New York magazine put her on its cover with the words “Cardi B. was made to be this famous.” In a world where people frequently get famous “for nothing,” Cardi is famous for everything.

She’s funny and can laugh at herself. So many rappers look like they’ve been practicing their hard looks in the mirror, but Cardi, perhaps knowing her street cred is never in doubt, tends toward the goofy, even in public. Her authenticity and effortlessness is jarring. It’s a contrast to all the people “keeping it real” who obviously aren’t.

She’s blunt about plastic surgery, telling GQ magazine this week that her butt-filler injections were done illegally in a Queens basement for $800. She says she got her breasts done to distract from her crooked teeth — which she’s also now had fixed.

In the same GQ interview she talks about her love of American history and her encyclopedic knowledge of American presidents. Interviewer Caity Weaver called her “unabashedly, directly political,” because she watches the news every night and sometimes talks politics in her Instagram videos.

Liberals loved that she mocked President Trump’s suggestion to arm teachers and approved of raising the age at which someone can buy a gun. Conservatives got excited when Cardi released a video asking where her tax dollars go. And it’s hard to ignore that Cardi is a walking, talking pro-life ad, pregnant at a surely inopportune time in her booming career.

Not that she needs any of that to keep her relevant.

“It was my personality that got me where I’m at,” Cardi has said. “So, I can’t tell anybody to do this or that and be on Instagram. But I will tell you that you can use your personality and be bubbly and be yourself in any field that you’re in. That alone will take you far, for real.”

Last summer “Bodak Yellow” was the one playing out of every passing car window. With the release of her new album, “Invasion of Privacy,” this summer is gearing up to be all-Cardi-all-the-time, too.

It’s easy to root for Cardi. Everyone wants the shmegular girl to get that shmoney.

This column was originally published in the New York Post.After watching both houses of Congress grill Mark Zuckerberg over the way Facebook handles privacy issues, I assume Google will eventually find its way back to Capitol Hill, too.

Google has dozens of products and a variety of privacy settings, but let's look at Google Maps. I advise everyone to take a gander at the permissions Google requires you to give up. There are over 10 categories, many repeated two or three times for no reason.

When you carefully scroll down the long list, which includes everything except giving up your firstborn, ask yourself the simple question: Why?

Here are a few things that should catch your eye. Under "Contacts"—a category that shows up twice—it says Google can find and read your contact list on your phone; this lets you find someone's address on a map by searching their name. But the second occurrence says that Google can find and read and modify. Why would Google Maps want to modify your contact list?

Under the "SMS" category, you provide permission for Google to send messages from your phone. It's likely to facilitate features like location sharing, but let's hope it's not used to send incriminating messages, too.

Under "Photos/Media/Files," it says Maps can read your USB drive and "modify or delete the contents of your USB storage." This is reportedly so Google "can write map files to your phone" for things like offline access, but the scary wording doesn't inspire confidence.

At the bottom of this huge list, we get down to the whoppers. The category is dubbed "Other." Besides having even more redundant granted permissions already found elsewhere on the list, you give Google permission to "download files without notification" as well as "receive data from Internet" as you give the app "full network access" and the ability to rack up your data bill. It mentions full network access seven times on the same list.

This is compounded by you giving Google permission to "send sticky broadcast," which refers to intercommunication between apps. Why?

I'm irked that the program can also control your Android phone's NFC. To me, it seems like that's an easy in for hackers.

Look for yourself (go here > Permissions > View Detail) and you'll come away with a bad feeling. I sure don't not like any of it.

For more, check out How to Get Google to Quit Tracking You.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.A former top employee of Cambridge Analytica said Wednesday that the key to resolving the breach of trust between users and tech companies highlighted by the Facebook data scandal is to truly consider data as property.

Facebook recently outlined a series of steps it is taking to comply with the European Union's General Data Proctection Regulation, but the company needs to radically rethink how it treats users' data, according to Brittany Kaiser.

Kaiser, who worked as a business development director with the U.K.-based data analytics company for three years and left in February, said during a press briefing on Wednesday that the only way to solve the problem is to give data the same legal protection as property.

“If we want protection, we need to start thinking of our data as our property, because, if no one has noticed, property is held up and protected legally,” Kaiser, who now works for Bueno Capital on blockchain business development, said during a press conference. “If our data is our property that’s the only way we’ll move forward in a productive manner and empower individuals.”

Kaiser has challenged Zuckerberg and other Facebook executives with the #OwnYourData campaign, which asks the tech giant to change its terms of service to acknowledge that the vast trove of data on its 2.2 billion users is actually the property of those users.

Facebook’s terms of service open with this line: “You own all of the content and information you post on Facebook, and you can control how it is shared through your privacy and application settings.” The tech company's CEO referenced the terms of service during his Senate testimony and told lawmakers at least 45 times that users control their data.

Sounds fair enough, right?

However, Kaiser said if you actually read the fine print, you find a line that “makes it sound like your data might be your property and then the rest of the [terms] go on to undermine that concept.”

FACEBOOK OUTLINES STEPS TO COMPLY WITH NEW PRIVACY LAW FOLLOWING CAMBRIDGE ANALYTICA SCANDAL

The former Cambridge Analytica employee is not a supporter of the #DeleteFacebook campaign, saying that the current crisis represents an opportunity for Facebook and other tech companies to show leadership and take the industry to the next level.

But she did take issue with COO Sheryl Sandberg, who recently hinted that users might have to pay a fee for total data privacy on Facebook.

“I was very taken aback and disappointed in Sheryl Sandberg’s public statement that if an individual did not want to continue to share their data with FB they would have to pay,” said Kaiser, who also worked on data analytics for Barack Obama's first presidential campaign. “To me, that sounds like a threat. Continue to let us use your property or pay?”

"Imagine if Facebook's users received a universal basic income every day." - Ex-Cambridge Analytica employee Brittany Kaiser

Kaiser suggested that one model that Facebook could adopt is that of Airbnb, which empowers people to profit from something they own--physical space--and still allows the tech company to make money. "Why can't you as an individual share in the value that's created?" she asked.

Regardless of whether enough users demand better terms of service or abandon the social platform entirely, Kaiser says the entire episode is a teachable moment for tech firms like Google and Facebook.

“Imagine if Facebook's users received a universal basic income every day. ... This isn’t going to be easy because it means that inherently their business model is going to take a little bit of a pay cut,” she explained. “But I think it’s only right that if they purport to be a platform that is for the good of their users, to make the world a better place that they start to actually prove that they mean that with their actions.”Amazon has released an Android browser in India dubbed "Internet," per the Verge—but that's not what the chief minister of Tripura state was referring to Tuesday when he claimed the Internet was invented in India long ago.

Speaking in Agartala, Biplab Deb cited the Hindu epic Mahabharata, stressing that a character's ability to describe a 5,000-year-old battle from miles away proved both the Internet and satellite technology existed in ancient India, reports the BBC.

Deb was swiftly mocked—"Krishna really should have streamed the Bhagavad-Gita on Facebook Live," Rutgers-Newark South Asian history professor Audrey Truschke tweeted—but supporters came out of the woodwork, too.

Tripura Gov. Tathagata Roy, for one, said "it is virtually impossible to conceive of devices," including flying chariots described in the myth, "without some kind of prototype," per the Times of India.

Critics say this is part of a wider trend of romanticizing history by the Bharatiya Janata Party, of which Deb is a member, per Newsweek.

In September, a BJP member said the airplane was first mentioned in the Hindu epic Ramayana, per the BBC, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also of BJP, has previously claimed plastic surgery was invented in ancient India.

"The anti-intellectualism and regressive streak from sections of the BJP continues to astound and worry," critic Rupa Subramanya tweeted. "Rather than solve today's problems they’re busy romanticizing a fictional past that never existed. Pathetic and embarrassing." Still, Deb is sticking to his guns.

"My country had the technology years ago, which no country had," he said Wednesday, per NDTV, acknowledging there are "narrow minded people who find it tough to believe this." (This Indian lawmaker wants to ban PDAs.)

This article originally appeared on Newser: Indian Minister: We Had the Internet 5K Years AgoElon Musk is a great example of crowdfunding success. Not only did he raise $10 million selling flamethrowers, he may soon be the recipient of a crowdfunded couch.

In an interview with CBS News last week, Musk mentioned the couch in his office at Tesla is, well, "not a good couch." "Last time I was here I actually slept, literally, on the floor because the couch is too narrow. It's terrible," he said.

"As a community, we cannot let this stand," California's Ben Sullins responded Monday with a GoFundMe campaign seeking to buy Musk a couch comfy enough for dozing.

More than $5,000, well above the $1,000 goal, has already been raised by 390 people as of this writing. If billionaire Musk is uninterested, Sullins says the funds will be donated to charity, per the Telegraph.

If he's open to receiving the new couch, Sullins says he'll "fly up there to hand deliver and film the experience." While a few commenters on the GoFundMe campaign page swung at the idea of buying a billionaire a couch while others are homeless, many cheered Musk on.

"We need you to get good rest!" said one. "Here's a little something from all of us on the internet, Elon :) We believe in you and your projects!" wrote another.

This article originally appeared on Newser: 390 Donate to Buy Couch for Billionaire MuskWhen a single F-35 used sensors, on-board computers and targeting systems to find, track and destroy two airborne drones at the same time with air-to-air missiles, the emerging 5th Gen fighter transitioned into a new era for offensive attack missions.

An F-35 pilot fired two Advanced Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missiles at maneuvering drones in the air, brining synchronized attack to a new level for the aircraft, using an integrated targeting sensor, called the Electro-Optical Targeting System (EOTS).

“Two AMRAAMs had multiple targets - to shoot two airborne targets simultaneously. It was a complex set up that happened over the Pacific. They were shooting at drones,” Lt. Col. Tucker Hamilton, F-35 Test Director, Edwards AFB, told reporters.

The test, which of course brings substantial tactical implications, was referenced as a decisive element of the Pentagon’s now completed multi-year System Development and Demonstration (SDD) test phase for the F-35.

The SDD phase completion milestone, which paves the way for accelerated full-rate production of the aircraft, lasted more than a decade – and included more than 46 weapons tests, Hamilton added.

Click on Warrior Maven for more.An angry Lyft passenger turned car thief in Brooklyn this month after terrifying a driver and making off with his sedan.

The incident occurred early in the morning of April 3 in the city's upscale Park Slope neighborhood, where the driver told police the passenger started screaming at him for not following his directions instead of the app's. The Brooklyn Paper first reported the crime, but incorrectly identified the car as an Uber.

“I’m gonna beat your a--,” the passenger yelled, which frightened the driver so much that he pulled over and got out of the 2015 Toyota Camry, hoping it would cool things down.

Instead, the passenger got into the driver’s seat and took off at high speed, but abandoned the car about a mile away, where police later found it with no damage or anything missing.

Police have not publically revealed any suspects, but an NYPD spokesman tells Fox News that no arrests have yet been made in connection with the incident.

Lyft has not yet responded to a request for comment from Fox News.

IF YOU THING THAT STORY IS WILD, CHECK THIS ONE OUT:General Motors is replacing Cadillac President Johan de Nysschen with GM Canada President Steve Carlisle, ahead of the introduction of the brand’s first small crossover.

De Nysschen came to Cadillac after stints at Infiniti and Audi, but struggled to find success with a product mix heavy with sports sedans and coupes as the luxury market shifted toward trucks and SUVs.

“We appreciate Johan’s efforts over the last four years in setting a stronger foundation for Cadillac,” said General Motors President Dan Ammann. “Looking forward, the world is changing rapidly, and, beginning with the launch of the new XT4, it is paramount that we capitalize immediately on the opportunities that arise from this rate of change. This move will further accelerate our efforts in that regard.”

The XT4 unveiled at the New York International Auto Show is expected to be one of Cadillac’s top-sellers when it goes on sale later this year. It will slot into the lineup under the larger XT5, which is the brand’s most popular model by far today.

De Nysschen had announced plans to reduce the number of sedans and coupes in Cadillac showrooms, but a much-needed three-row crossover utility is still at least a year away. He also clashed with Cadillac dealers about a major overhaul of its retail network known as Project Pinnacle.

Cadillac sales have been booming in China, where they were up over 50 percent in 2017, but slipped 8 percent in the United States last year and have only recovered by that same amount through the first quarter of 2018.

De Nysschen’s departure is effective immediately, according to a GM statement. Carlisle started his career with the company as an engineer in 1982.

EXCLUSIVE: TRUMP GETTING NEW LIMOUSINE THIS SUMMER:Between raising two daughters and working as a dishwasher at Whole Foods, Lhakpa Sherpa just doesn't have time for training to climb Mount Everest. Even so, she has done it a record eight times — and hopes to outdo herself yet again.

The 44-year-old native of Nepal holds the world record for summits of Everest by a woman and plans to return this month for what has become an annual expedition to the top of the world.

"My body knows that I have already been this high. It's like a computer. It figures it out very quickly. My body knows the high altitude. It remembers."

DOMINO'S WILL NOW DELIVER PIZZA TO BEACHES, PARKS, AND OTHER 'UNEXPECTED' SITES

Lhakpa Sherpa is recognized by Guinness World Records and is well known in mountaineering circles, but she spends most of the year living a modest life in obscurity in Connecticut, where she moved with her now ex-husband, another well-known climber, in 2002.

She gets up most days at 6 a.m. to walk her two daughters, 16-year-old Sunny and 11-year-old Shiny, to school. Then, because she does not know how to drive, often walks the 2 miles to her job, where she washes dishes in the prepared foods section and takes out the garbage.

"You would never know she hiked Everest unless you knew her and talked to her about it," says Dan Furtado, the manager who hired Lhakpa at Whole Foods. "She's the most humble person I know, and her work ethic is astounding."

Lhakpa says that she would have liked to be a doctor or an airplane pilot, but that as a girl growing up in the Sherpa ethnic community with her four brothers and seven sisters, she wasn't allowed to attend school.

STARBUCKS CLOSING 8,000 US STORES ON MAY 29 TO CONDUCT 'RACIAL BIAS TRAINING'

Without a formal education, she has taken jobs in Connecticut cleaning houses, as a clerk at a local convenience store and as a dishwasher to give her daughters and now-grown son a chance at a better life in the United States, she said.

"My rent is expensive here," she says, "but this is where the best schools are."

Lhakpa said she is used to overcoming adversity. Sherpa girls were discouraged from climbing, but she was a tomboy and would not be deterred from helping the men in her family, serving as a porter to bring gear to Everest base camps.

Becoming a climber was harder, she said, especially after the first Nepali woman to reach the summit, Pasang Lhamu Sherpa, died on her way down the mountain in 1993.

Lhakpa Sherpa joined an expedition of five women in 2000 who convinced the government to give them a permit. She was the first Nepali woman to reach the summit and return alive.

The record for successful climbs to the top of Everest is 21, shared by three Sherpa men who worked as mountain guides. Two have retired from climbing, but the third, Kami Rita, told The Associated Press in Kathmandu recently he was heading to Everest to attempt his 22nd climb.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Anne Parmenter, a field hockey coach at Trinity College in Hartford, climbed with Lhakpa on an ill-fated Everest expedition in 2004. There were serious issues with that climb, including a physical confrontation between Lhakpa and her husband at the time that left Lhakpa unconscious.

Parmenter says it is impressive to see what Lhakpa has been able to overcome, both physically and mentally.

"She's obviously been blessed with amazing physiology that allows her to live here, not train, and go back and adapt very quickly to that high-altitude environment," she says. "She can do that, function and be really strong."

Says Lhakpa: "I wanted to show that a woman can do men's jobs. There is no difference in climbing a mountain. I climb for all women."

Lhakpa said she does have some fears about climbing, especially who would take care of her daughters if there were an accident on Everest. She was at a camp in 2015 when an earthquake triggered avalanches that killed 19 people on Everest. Her daughter Shiny says it was a week before they received the phone call telling them their mother was OK.

Lhakpa Sherpa saves up each year for the plane ticket back to Nepal and climbs with an expedition company run by one of her brothers. They will guide about 50 people, mostly Europeans, up the mountain this year, she said. Next year, she plans to make a second attempt to summit K2 — the world's second-highest peak — for the first time.

This season, for the first time, she has a sponsor. Black Diamond, a mountain sports equipment company, is outfitting her with new gear and providing monetary support.

"It's clear from everything about her life that the word 'can't' is not in her lexicon," says Chris Parker, the company's content manager. Lhakpa also received a proclamation last month from her adopted home town of West Hartford that proclaims her the "Queen of Mount Everest."

But to many of her co-workers, she's just Lhakpa.

"I don't need to be famous," she says. "I want to keep doing my sport. If I don't do my sport, I feel tired. I want to push my limits."One of the most frequent questions hunters ask me is how to cook a certain cut of meat. The answer to that question depends not only on the cut, but also your cooking abilities and dish preferences. Which means this cut-by-cut guides is going to be tailored to my culinary tastes, and how I break down my animals.

This is by no means the only way to butcher and cook your cuts, but this is how I get the best results when using the whole deer. There are also some useful guidelines below — regardless of individual preferences — that will hopefully keep folks from attempting to grill shanks or stew backstrap.

NECK

A post shared by Ryan Callaghan (@olcal406) on Apr 3, 2018 at 8:50am PDT

The neck is a giant pain. It is possible, with a lot of practice to de-bone the neck and make a beautiful neck roast. You could also make a bone-in neck roast. Or you could do what most people do, and cut as much away from the bone as possible and grind it all up. Deboning a neck takes skill and time. Ideally, everyone should give it a try on each deer they shoot, if only to practice and hone their knife skills. Even if you mess it up the first few times, you can still grind all the meat so none of it goes to waste. If and when you do master the art of de-boning a neck roast, you’re in for a treat. There’s good amount of connective tissue in the neck, and slowly cooking it for several hours will result in one of the best pot-roast-style cuts on the animal.

10 MISTAKES HUNTERS MAKE WHEN COOKING WILD GAME

FRONT SHOULDERS

The front shoulders are the source for most of my ground venison. On really big deer, you can get some nice blade steaks off the front shoulders, but I usually just grind everything on the front legs. I like to make all my own sausages, and my wife really likes plenty of ground venison to cook with instead of ground beef. Although I think a lot of people get stuck in a culinary box when it comes to ground venison, it’s actually one of the most versatile things to have in your freezer. Pretty much anything you could cook with ground beef, pork, or lamb will accommodate a venison substitute, including an endless amount of fresh and smoked sausages. I’ve used it in all varieties of dishes, from lasagna to pot stickers. Just remember that venison doesn’t have the fat content that domestic animals have. If you are going to make burgers, you need to add fat to the meat you grind, mix in some ground beef to the venison patties, or cook your burger medium-rare. If you overcook ground venison in a burger or meatballs, it dries out terribly and produces an off-putting grainy texture.

SHANKS

Deer shanks have become my favorite part of the animal. Unfortunately, many people grind the shanks or — even worse — throw them out because they don’t know how to cook them. The shanks are full of connective tissue and sinew, and if you don’t know how to cook them, they end up tougher than shoe leather. But if you treat them to liquid and low heat for long periods of time, you’ll be rewarded with incredibly tender and succulent meat. Osso Bucco is one dish that highlights this. Cutting the shanks into 3-inch sections and leaving the bone-in is one way to cut the shank. My favorite way to prepare them is to cut all the meat off the bone and into 1-inch cubes. I use this meat in all my stews. That sinew and connective tissue melts out of the meat, adding richness to your stew and helping thicken the liquid you are cooking.

A STEP-BY-STEP GUIDE TO VENISON SAUSAGE

BACKSTRAPS

I think it is safe to say this is most people’s favorite part of the deer. Easily grilled or fried in a pan, backstrap lends itself to quick and simple preparations. A lot of folks I know like to cut the straps into chops and grill them, but this often doesn’t work for me. Those little chops cook so fast they often end up overcooked. To control that a little better, I leave my backstraps in large chunks. I usually cut each whole strap into three pieces, which leaves me six pieces. Then I package them into two chunks per package for family grilling.

There are several methods for cooking a good backstrap and — at the risk of offending folks — none of them involve wrapping it in bacon. One of my favorite ways to cook them is seared in a pan with a bourbon cream sauce. There are several other methods out there for getting perfectly cooked meat. Perhaps nothing is more precise than the sous vide method, but that requires special equipment and can be time consuming, easy though it is. If you have a smoker or an oven, the reverse sear is another method that will give you wonderful results.

WHAT IS A 'REVERSE SEAR'?

TENDERLOINS

I won’t spend a lot of time on the tenderloins: they are the smallest portion of the deer and, in my opinion, highly overrated. They are typically too small to feed the family and are, at best, one meal for myself. They’re tender, yes, but no more flavorful than any other part of the deer. I will usually eat them while I’m butchering the deer. I cook them simply, just seared in butter with a little garlic, salt, and pepper. Because they are small and very tender, they do lend themselves to wok-style cooking: high heat and cooked very fast.

RIBS

The ribs are an interesting part of the animal. I don’t do anything special with them, though — I always cut as much meat off the ribs as possible and throw it in my grind pile. But that doesn’t mean you can’t cook them and have great results with them. Case in point: Josh Dahlke’s venison rib recipe was one of the best things I have ever eaten.

For more suggestions on cooking organs, hind portions and steak rounds, continue reading this article at Outdoor Life.“Real Housewives of Beverly Hills” cast member Kyle Richards is no stranger to being on camera. As a former child actor, the reality star has been appearing in films and on television series since the 1970s, starting before the age of 10. She’s had roles in “Escape to Witch Mountain,” “Halloween” and “Little House on the Prairie,” among many others.

But despite her many years of experience, the mom of four says she still feels pressure to look a certain way on TV, though she’s learned to accept it as part of life. In an interview with Fox News, Richards shared what it’s like to see yourself age on camera, the best beauty tips she’s learned over the years, and what she wants to pass on to her daughters.

A post shared by Kyle Richards Umansky (@kylerichards18) on Apr 2, 2018 at 12:04pm PDT

MICROBLADING: THE FACE TATTOO YOU'LL ACTUALLY WANT TO GET

Richards says even after being on eight seasons of "RHOBH," she feels pressure to look good on camera, but what she likes about reality TV is that she can really just be herself.

“If I’ve gained weight it’s OK, this is life, this is my reality. The weight goes up, it goes down, my skin’s not looking great or whatever it is, it’s part of life. I do I feel pressure to look my best, but I think I do that in just my personal life anyway,” she told Fox News.

A post shared by Kyle Richards Umansky (@kylerichards18) on Jan 16, 2018 at 12:02pm PST

As she ages, Richards says her beauty routine evolves in order to make sure she always looks her best. “I started doing different things and having to go that extra mile, trying different things with my skin or things like that. Like cutting my hair off, just trying to keep things fresh and always wanting to look my best and put my best foot forward,” she said. (Editor’s note: Richards said she had her stylist cut a couple more inches off her new bob at 6 a.m. before this interview.)

“Just like I tell my daughters, first impressions are important so once it’s out there, whether it’s a picture or a TV show, it’s there, it’s gonna be out there forever,” she added.

A post shared by Kyle Richards Umansky (@kylerichards18) on Sep 28, 2017 at 10:19am PDT

Growing up with a mom who was fanatical about skincare, Richards says she learned the importance of taking care of hers at an early age. “She passed that on to me and I’ve passed that on to my daughters. I’ve learned that whether it’s with your skin or your hair, less is more. People go and do so much to it I don’t think that’s good. Too much product is not good, so I think that’s probably the best thing. And not the most expensive thing is the best thing. That’s for sure. I’ve learned that the hard way,” she said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Richards is also trying to teach her own daughter’s the importance of sticking with a skincare regimen. She's recently teamed up with Clearasil and has been talking to other moms about how to get below the surface with their kids, whether it’s talking about self-esteem, skincare practices or the pressures of social media.

“I want them to look and feel their best. So just taking care of themselves [is important]. I’m a mom of four daughters so obviously that’s a big part of our conversations.”The Internet was abuzz with talk of Stormy Daniels this week, only this time people were also focusing on her necklace.

The adult film star and director, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, attended a court hearing tied to the FBI raid on President Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen, wearing a large silver pendant necklace in the shape of a skeleton key. Then on Tuesday, Daniels made a guest appearance on “The View” to discuss the Trump scandal wearing the same statement piece.

HOW COULD A PASSENGER GET SUCKED OUT OF AN AIRPLANE?

Articles began surfacing online speculating the meaning behind Daniel’s necklace. “Some believe the porn star may be using the jewelry to hint at further secrets to come about the Trump scandal. Others think she may be hinting that Cohen, who paid her for her silence about her alleged affair with Trump, should be jailed and she's the key,” The Daily Mail wrote.

“The key charm could be hinting at her intention to unlock secrets related to the Trump allegations. Or maybe it’s a reference to keep details under lock and key. As it happens, her Twitter account — once used to fire back responses to trolls — is now protected, and features a logo of a lock,” Yahoo wrote.

People on Twitter made similar assumptions, questioning what secret message Daniels is trying to send with her choice of jewelry. “Stormy Daniels arrives at Cohen's hearing in a pastel pink skirt suit and a KEY CHARM NECKLACE. lock him up? she's the key?” one person wrote.

“Is there a hidden meaning behind Stormy Daniels's key necklace? Nope. It’s the key to her chastity belt - just in case you lost yours...” someone else wrote.

But as it turns out, the real meaning behind the necklace may have nothing to do with the Trump scandal at all. As some on Twitter have already pointed out, the key is likely the Penthouse Key, or the logo of Penthouse magazine. The key, which incorporates both Mars and Venus symbols, is often worn by Penthouse centerfolds, known as Penthouse Pets.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Daniels has accessorized the necklace before her recent television interviews, too. The adult film actress is featured on the cover the May-June 2018 issue of Penthouse magazine wearing little more than the necklace in question.

Story Daniels' other recent necklaces have generated a bit of buzz as well, including one featuring a lightning bolt — which Yahoo reported to be a reference to her "Stormy" stage name — and another featuring the logo of Wicked Pictures, an adult film company for which she directs.The Colorado Springs Police Department has a new member: Joshua Salmoiraghi, a 4-year-old boy battling cancer.

On Tuesday, Joshua was “sworn in” to the department in full uniform, the police department announced.

The day was full of doughnuts and fun for Joshua, who was first diagnosed with stage four kidney cancer over Father’s Day weekend in June 2017. He was 3-years-old at the time. The city’s fire department also came, allowing the boy to sit in a fire truck and spray the fire hose.

“People who don't know him are here for him, that’s a huge blessing,” Joshua’s father, Joseph, told Fox News on Wednesday. “He doesn't fully understand everything that’s going on, but he’s having the time of his life right now."

After undergoing surgery to remove an 11-centimeter tumor from his left kidney, the young boy went through radiation and chemotherapy treatment. By December of last year, doctors determined Joshua to be in remission.

But that changed in January after the 4-year-old's doctors found another tumor in his left lung.



While the tumor was removed, Joshua will start a new six-month round of chemotherapy on Thursday at Aurora Children’s Hospital. This time, “it is going to be much more harsh, much more aggressive,” Joseph, a military veteran and pastor, said.

“It will be a trying time for all involved,” the police department added, referring to Joshua’s family, which includes his mother, Amanda, a major in the U.S. Air Force, and the 4-year-old’s two older brothers, Benjamin and Timothy — ages 10 and 7, respectively.



The family recently moved to Colorado Springs from Los Angeles because Amanda was re-stationed. While the family had to leave a “tight-knit” community behind, Joseph said they have found an outpouring of support in their new home.

"This was a wonderful welcome for us and kind of helped ease our fears about moving right before Joshua started treatment again," Amanda told Fox News, adding that she is "grateful to all the people who have gone out of their way to give Joshua special memories before he has to endure another round of treatment."

It was Colorado Springs Police Officer Warren Listul who first heard Joshua’s story; the officer and Joseph were recently chatting outside of a local Wingstop, and Listful was so moved he helped organize Tuesday’s event for the boy.

"Since [my wife] also has stage four [cancer], it struck a nerve with me, very personal," Listul told Fox21.

“I [initially] asked if [Joshua] could ride around in the police car for the day, but it turned into so much more than that,” said Joseph, who added that the police department’s kind gesture had been a “shock.”

Members of the police department also chipped in to purchase a battery-powered motorcycle for Joshua. They plan on outfitting the bike with official Colorado Springs Police Department decals and Joshua’s name.

“[As parents] the hardest part of making the decision [to continue treatment] is that it’s going to hurt him and cause him suffering and pain,” Joseph said. “But we have to put emotions aside because it's what’s needed and necessary.”

As for the family’s response to the support they've received, Joseph said “we cry -- it has answered our prayers."Taking high doses of supplements containing green tea extracts may be associated with liver damage, according to new research from the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA).

Tea infusions, as used for brewed tea, are still considered safe. Instant tea drinks are also fine as they contain lower levels of the antioxidants naturally present in green tea, Parma-based EFSA said.

Consuming too many of these antioxidants can be harmful, which is why the amount contained in supplements can have a harmful effect on the liver.

MAN LEFT FACELESS FOR 2 MONTHS GETS SECOND TRANSPLANT AFTER FIRST DETERIORATES

Most supplements provide an intake of 5-1000 mg, while tea infusions typically only contain 90-300 mg, EFSA, which oversees food safety in the European Union, said.

Researchers determined that consuming over 800 mg per day led to higher health risks, but the EFSA said experts could not yet determine a supplement dosage that would be entirely safe.

However, high consumption of green tea infusions did not indicate liver damage due to the drinks having a lower concentration of antioxidants.A Missouri family is hopeful for their 7-year-old son who remains sedated at Children’s Mercy Hospital after he was struck in the head by a foul ball at a college baseball game on Friday. Dawson Hirshey, who was seated with his family members near the third base dugout, is expected to survive, but is believed to have suffered a brain injury and a several mini-strokes.

“CT [scan] shows sign of a brain injury, but as far as we can tell this will cause physical problems rather than mental,” a cousin posted on the family’s GoFundMe page. “He has also suffered from a few mini-strokes. Despite all this, the doctors have told us he will in fact be waking up!”

MAN LEFT FACELESS FOR 2 MONTHS GETS SECOND TRANSPLANT AFTER FIRST DETERIORATES

The post revealed that Hirshey, who underwent surgery to remove part of his skull to relieve swelling, gave his neurologist two thumbs up when asked if he could hear them, and that he will likely remain sedated for a few more days. He has not spoken since losing consciousness on the way to the hospital on Friday night, Fox4KC.com reported.

The outing was Hirshey’s first time at a Missouri Southern State University game, and his parents said it all happened within minutes of sitting down.

“Came right our way,” Alicia Hirshey, the boy’s mother, told Fox4KC. “It was so fast, a split second. He immediately grabbed it and started crying, so we ran over and realized he was hit and I yelled for a medic. It knotted up immediately. You could even see the stitches of the ball.”

The field-level section that the family was seated in at the stadium was not covered by a protective net, The Kansas City Star reported. The city of Joplin, which maintains the stadium, did not indicate to the news outlet whether it would be conducting a safety review.

BOY WITH AUTISM BUILDS WORLD'S LARGEST TITANIC REPLICA

Every MLB team added additional safety netting to their stadiums ahead of this year’s season after a toddler was hit in the face by a foul ball last year. The safety netting now expands to the end of the player dugouts.

In addition to the family’s GoFundMe page, the Diamond, Mo., community is placing orders for “Pray for Dawson” t-shirts. His mother is keeping family updated on his health status on the “Prayers 4 Dawson” Facebook page. The Kansas City Royals have reached out and sent gifts for Hirshey and his twin sister, Delaney.Alicia Keys has revealed her favorite thing about working on NBC's “The Voice”: fellow judge Kelly Clarkson.

“She’s so funny,” Keys told Fox News at the fifth annual Variety Women of Power luncheon in New York City on Friday. “She’s like one of the funniest people I’ve ever met. She might be a comedian in another life – I’m like 'What? Who are you?'”

The singer continued to gush about her dynamic with her new co-star on set and said, “We have so much fun.”

Keys joined the hit NBC talent-search series in 2016 as a first-time judge alongside Miley Cyrus for the show’s 11th season. On season 12 of the show, her second time as a judge, Team Alicia won the competition with fan-favorite singer Chris Blue. Now back for her third run as a judge, the singer told Entertainment Tonight back in February that she was ready for her “second consecutive win.”

“It's all about passion. I think it's all about touching people," she told ET of her season winning strategy. "I think that's why everybody loves this show, it's about real, bona fide artists and talent out here showing you what they have, and you're like, 'I'm invested. I want you.'"

While at the Power of Women event, Keys also took the time to share her opinion on the #MeToo movement.

“I think, we as women, we are culture changers,” Keys told us. “I think the more we share our stories, and the more our stories are heard, then the less isolated we feel. And I think one of the biggest things that has happened, especially with the Me Too movement -- and all the movements that have come around and just really empowering women, making sure that we say who we are -- is that we get a chance to be together.”

The “Voice” coach, who was honored at the Power of Women event for her work as the co-founder Keep a Child Alive, a nonprofit organization that aims to fight the social stigma of HIV, added: “We’re so good at being strong that we often times maybe haven’t been encouraged to really speak our truths. Now we are being encouraged to speak our truths and that is a huge breakthrough and it’s changing everything.”Authorities in Los Angeles on Tuesday released a Colorado man accused of stalking pop star Taylor Swift outside her Beverly Hills home while wearing a mask and keeping a knife in his car.

Julius Sandrock, 38, was arrested Saturday on suspicion of stalking, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said. Swift wasn’t at the home at the time.

Aside from the knife, officers searching Sandrock's car found a rope, ammunition and more masks and gloves, according to a temporary restraining order obtained by police.

Prescription medications, including oxycodone, also were found, the order said.

Sandrock told arresting officers that he suffered from depression, bipolar disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder and manic episodes, according to the document.

Police requested the restraining order after Sandrock told officers he owned three guns.

The document, obtained by the New York Daily News, said Sandrock told police he owned a .22 caliber handgun, a 9mm handgun and a .380 caliber handgun. Sandrock also told officers he was on probation after a “disorderly conduct and discharging a firearm” conviction in Colorado.

Sandrock had driven to Beverly Hills from his home in Broomfield, Colo. — about 1,040 miles — just to see Swift, the restraining order said.

His arrest followed the April 8 arrest of a homeless man, Justin Lilly, 23, on suspicion of trespassing after he tried to climb a wall at the same property and ignored warnings by security guards to leave.

Swift wasn’t at the home then, either.

Lilly was charged with a misdemeanor and sentenced to three days in jail.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Tennessee’s GOP-led House voted Tuesday to strip $250,000 away from the city of Memphis after the city removed Confederate statues on a dark December night through a legal loophole.

The quarter-million was supposed to go to the city’s bicentennial celebration next year, but as a way of punishing the city for removing Confederate monuments, Tennessee’s House appropriations passed a last-minute retaliation amendment that triggered a lively floor debate with both sides slinging hyperbolic accusations, FOX 61 reported.

Republican Andy Holt said taking statues down was erasing history, akin to “what ISIS does,” but Democrat Antonio Parkinson blasted the amendment as “vile” and “racist” before fellow lawmakers started to boo.

MEMPHIS CONFEDERATE STATUES REMOVED AFTER CITY COUNCIL VOTES TO SELL PARKS

After the Tennessee Historical Commission refused to allow Memphis city leaders to remove statues of Nathan Bedford Forrest and Jefferson Davis from two city parks in October, Mayor Jim Strickland sold the parks containing the statues for $1000 each. And in the dark of the night, the Confederate statues were removed in December.

The amendment, sponsored by Republican Matthew Hill, passed along with the $37.5 million budget.

“You remove money from a city because we removed your god from our grounds,” Parkinson said.

STARNES: MEMPHIS MAYOR SHOULD BE HAULED OUT OF CITY HALL IN HANDCUFFS

Republican representative Gerald McCormick, who grew up in Memphis, said the move was about obeying the spirit of a law intended to protect historical monuments.

“And the law was very clear, and they got smart lawyers to figure out how to wiggle around the law, and I think that’s what the issue is,” McCormick said.

Democrat Bo Mitchell warned of “bad consequences” as a result of choosing to honor Forrest, who “fought against our country, committed treason, then was a proven war criminal, and was a slave trader.”

“You’re going to choose to honor that person here on this floor today and hold it against a city,” Mitchell said.When Nassir Nbl asked a very special lady to be his date for senior prom, she could barely believe it.

“I would be honored!!” his mother Fatima recalls of her 18-year-old son’s heartfelt invitation, Yahoo Lifestyle reports.

Eighteen years ago, the single mother of two from Chester, Penn., missed the opportunity to attend her own high school prom, as she was caring for Nassir, a toddler at the time.

MINNESOTA FIREHOUSE WELCOMES TEENS FOR #BLIZZARDPROM PHOTO SHOOT

“You told me that you didn’t go to your senior prom because you had me six months prior, and you’d rather spend your money on your first apartment,” Nassir remembers of a deep conversation he had with his mom before his eighth-grade formal. When offered the chance to make her dream come true, he was sure to take it.

“At that moment, I knew I did a great job raising him,” Fatima wrote in a now-viral Instagram post.

STRANGER COMFORTS HYSTERICAL TODDLER ON FLIGHT, GOES VIRAL

On April 13, the mother-son duo went all out for the Cardinal O’Hara High School prom. Fatima rocked a glitzy, turquoise, form-fitting, long-sleeved custom gown with damask detailing, while Nassir sported a black suit tricked out with sleeves matching Fatima’s dress, along with green smoking slippers and aviator sunglasses.

Naturally, Instagram fans couldn’t get enough of how fabulous the pair looked.

“Your story made me cry! this is so beautiful,” one admirer wrote.

“Congratulations … for getting to go to the prom, and most importantly, raising an awesome son. That was awesome. I'm so happy for you,” another chimed in.

“This is a beautiful story. Mom you did great!” one added.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Though the big night may have flown by, Fatima and Nassir now have sweet photos that they’ll surely cherish for years to come.

Coincidentally, a teen in Texas also went viral for taking his mom to senior prom, too.American specialty retailer Bed Bath & Beyond is struggling to keep up with burgeoning competition from online retailers, issuing bleak guidance at a time when some businesses are struggling to adapt to shifting consumer trends.

Continue Reading Below

Ratings agency S&P Global downgraded Bed Bath & Beyond on Wednesday after the company reported weak fiscal 2017 results, citing the home goods retailer’s “weakening competitive position.” The agency, which reduced the company’s rating to one level above junk, warned additional downgrades were possible if the company was unable to execute its strategy or if credit metrics deteriorated beyond expectations.

Last week, the retailer issued weak guidance for 2018 that caused its stock to plummet to a 10-year low. Shares are down more than 50% over the past year.

Further downgrades could raise the amount of interest the retailer has to pay on its $1.5 billion worth of debt.

S&P said on Wednesday it did not anticipate upgrading its outlook on the company to stable over the next couple of years, pointing to negative headwinds – including higher costs and pressure from elevated price transparency – that are likely to persist.

“The downgrade reflects our view … for performance to deteriorate further over the next 12-24 months despite heavy investment in operating initiatives and expected potential benefit from the likely Babies ‘R’ Us liquidation in the U.S.,” the note read.

Advertisement

Retailers across the sector are searching for ways to keep up with competition from the likes of e-commerce giant Amazon. Those that haven’t been able to make the transition fast enough have been forced to shutter locations or file for bankruptcy.

In addition to its online competitors, Bed Bath & Beyond faces pressure from such rivals as Home Depot.General Motors replaced the head of Cadillac on Wednesday as the luxury car brand’s turnaround struggled to gain momentum.

Continue Reading Below

GM said Cadillac President Johan de Nysschen is leaving the company, effective immediately. He has been replaced by Steve Carlisle, who most recently served as president and managing director of GM Canada.

De Nysschen, who previously served as an executive at Volkswagen’s Audi, is leaving Cadillac at time when U.S. sales continue to trail rivals such as Mercedes-Benz and Lexus, although sales in China have surged.

Cadillac has the potential to generate stronger profits for GM, especially as luxury buyers flock to SUVs. But Cadillac has been slow to expand its SUV lineup, and de Nysschen’s decision to raise prices reportedly created friction with dealers.

“SUVs make up 58.7% of luxury sales right now and Cadillac should be in an ideal position to capitalize on it, yet they’re caught playing catch-up,” said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of industry analysis at Edmunds.

Advertisement

In a statement, GM President Dan Ammann thanked de Nysschen for “setting a stronger foundation for Cadillac,” adding that installing a new Cadillac boss will accelerate the brand’s efforts to compete better with luxury rivals.

“Looking forward, the world is changing rapidly, and, beginning with the launch of the new XT4, it is paramount that we capitalize immediately on the opportunities that arise from this rate of change,” he said.

GM touted Carlisle’s success running the Canadian business, saying the company was ranked first in automotive retail sales in the country last year. The GM veteran joined the company in 1982 and once served as vice president of U.S. sales operations.

Ticker Security Last Change %Chg GM GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY 38.93 -0.29 -0.74%

“I look forward to building on our current momentum as we continue on our mission to position Cadillac at the pinnacle of luxury,” Carlisle said.

Travis Hester, currently vice president of global product programs, will replace Carlisle as the head of GM Canada.Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson on Wednesday discussed the controversial arrest of two African-American men at a Philadelphia Starbucks for allegedly trespassing.

Continue Reading Below

“I had the opportunity to apologize to those two gentlemen for what happened to them – they didn’t deserve that,” Johnson, who called the Tuesday meeting “very productive” and “positive,” told FOX Business’ Cheryl Casone on “Mornings with Maria” on Wednesday.

Johnson said the discussion focused on how use the incident as an example to turn a “terrible incident and turn it into something good.”

The coffee chain on Tuesday announced it would close more than 8,000 company-owned stores in the U.S. in late May to conduct racial-bias training. It is estimated that the move would cost millions, but Johnson said it’s his responsibility to “take appropriate action to make sure it never happens again.”

More from Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson on FOX Business Starbucks CEO touts 'very productive' discussion on controversial arrests

“Certainly what happened in our store that resulted in the arrest of these two young men was reprehensible – it shouldn’t have happened,” he said, adding that the employee who called 911 no longer works at the company.

Advertisement

Johnson also met with Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney, law enforcement and community leaders to ensure a similar situation doesn’t happen again.

When asked about changing store policies, Johnson said: “We are looking at all aspects of this.”article

After nearly 100 years in the burger business, fast-food chain White Castle is still keeping “things in the family.”

Continue Reading Below

The company has remained family-owned since launching its first restaurant in 1921 in Wichita, Kansas, and its fourth-generation chief executive, Lisa Ingram, says she still works alongside many of her cousins today.

“There are 10 of us in the fourth and fifth generation that still work in the business, which is very unusual for family businesses to last that long,” Ingram tells FOX Business, adding that her family is “quite proud” of the company her ancestors helped to create.

White Castle CEO Lisa Ingram

Ingram’s great-grandfather, Edgar Waldo “Billy” A. Ingram, partnered with Walt A. Anderson, who ran burger food stands at the time, to open the first White Castle restaurant location in 1921, decades before McDonald’s launched in the 1940s.

Advertisement

Today, White Castle has more than 400 locations across the country.

“I think my great-grandfather would be really proud of what we have become today,” Ingram says.

As for mixing business with family, Ingram acknowledges that there is a lot of work conversation at the Thanksgiving Day table but that family members try their best to focus on the holiday.

What’s more, says Ingram, the company is not only retaining “blood” but also retaining leaders. To date, White Castle’s average tenure of a restaurant general manager is 21 years, with an average turnover rate of 1% to 2%.Students and others with Confederate flags flying from or painted on their pickup trucks parked for a second day outside of a central Michigan high school, prompting other students to hold a counter-demonstration against racism and bigotry.

Six trucks bearing the Confederate battle flag parked outside of Bay City Western High School on Tuesday and were joined by others on Wednesday, when they were met by students waving rainbow flags and placards with messages including "Black Lives Matter" and "Hate Not Heritage," The Bay City Times reported .

Cameron Myers, a student who was waving a Confederate flag, said a flag was torn from his vehicle on school property last week. He denied that his faction was trying to intimidate anyone by waving the flag.

"It's not about racism; it's a country boy thing," Myers said.

"If we were going over there and saying racist slurs and cussing them out, that would be another thing," he told The Bay City Times.

But some students saw it otherwise.

"We have such a small minority population of students and we're in a conservative area," said Kendrix Szilagyi, who organized the counter-protest and called the Confederate flag display "racism."

"We're a white-majority school," Szilagyi said. "It's making some of the students and people feel uncomfortable and unwelcome."

Only some of the Confederate flag faction are students at the school in Auburn, about 100 miles (160 kilometers) northwest of Detroit.

"The majority of the people who were out there weren't actually students of ours,'" superintendent Stephen Bigelow told The Associated Press on Wednesday, referring to the owners of the vehicles. "For the most part, the majority of our students were inside doing the right thing."

Bay County Sheriff Troy R. Cunningham said deputies were monitoring the situation.

Administrators are trying to determine if the school, where more than 94 percent of the students are white, has race problems and whether some students could be disciplined for harassment or intimidation.

Bigelow said there may be little the district can do since the vehicles were not on school property, but there are "more issues than just the flags."

"My number one priority is to make sure our students are safe at school and feel safe at school," he said. "Quite often, that flag can bring some racial undertones that are not healthy at school."

Bigelow said he's not sure if the vehicles bearing the flags will be outside the school on Thursday.

Auburn's mayor, Lee Kilbourn, said the flag display is not illegal.

"I'm not saying I'm supporting it ... or against it, but people in this country have to start realizing we have to tolerate all peoples' views," Kilbourn told The Bay City Times.

"If the motive was to intimidate, that was wrong," he said. "Trying to intimidate by race, color, creed, political belief, or religious belief is wrong. We have to respond to that in the right way so that the right message gets out."

Efforts to remove Confederate flags from public places as symbols of national division and black oppression accelerated after violence during a white supremacist rally last year in Charlottesville, Virginia.A nanny who stabbed two children to death at their home while their mother was taking a sibling to a swimming lesson and their father was out of town was convicted of murder on Wednesday despite her claims she was too mentally ill to be held responsible.

Jurors found that Yoselyn Ortega killed 6-year-old Lucia Krim and 2-year-old Leo Krim in October 2012 and understood the consequences of her actions when she did it.

Ortega expressed no reaction to the verdict, staring straight ahead as it was read in court. The children's father, Kevin Krim, held hands with two alternate jurors who said they would stay for the verdict and then hugged them after it was read, and they cried together.

Ortega's lawyer Valerie Van Leer-Greenberg didn't dispute that Ortega killed the children but contended she had an undiagnosed mental illness that got worse in the moments leading up to the attack.

Mental illness "does not announce itself like a bad cough or a limp," Van Leer-Greenberg said during closing arguments. "Sometimes it sneaks up and nestles in before anyone takes notice."

But prosecutors maintained that Ortega knew what she was doing and acted out of jealous hatred of the children's mother, Marina Krim, who was richer and happier than she was.

"She did it intentionally with a full understanding of exactly what it was she was doing — every stab, every slash," Assistant District Attorney Stuart Silberg said during closing arguments.

Ortega, who's from the Dominican Republic, showed little emotion during the trial and mostly stared straight ahead. But she shook her head forcefully and mouthed "no" during testimony that her employers treated her well.

Jurors heard heart-wrenching testimony from Marina Krim, who spoke of the sickening, desperate moments when she saw her children's vacant eyes, their small bodies perforated by stab wounds.

Krim was at a swimming class with her 3-year-old daughter, Nessie. They went to pick up Lucia from dance class, but she wasn't there.

Krim, after finding Lucia's and Leo's bodies in the family's home, ran outside with Nessie, called for help and started screaming.

"It was a scream you can't imagine is even inside of you," she testified. "I don't even know where it came from. I just thought: 'I'm never going to be able to talk to them ever again. They are dead. I just saw my kids dead.'"

Lucia, who was called Lulu, was stabbed more than 30 times and had defensive wounds on her body. Leo was stabbed five times.

Their father had been away on a business trip. At Ortega's trial, he spoke of walking down a long hallway at the hospital where he saw his children.

"They still had this perfect skin and these long eyelashes," Kevin Krim said. "They had like sandy brown hair. ... You could see they tried really hard to wash all the blood out, but there was still kind of an auburn tint to it that I remember to this day."

The father's testimony brought tears to the jurors and to people seated in the courtroom gallery. The father had no comment after the verdict against Ortega was read.

Ortega, who's 55 years old, faces life in prison when she's sentenced next month.There was a loud boom, and the plane started shaking violently. Air whooshed through the cabin, and snow-like debris floated down the aisle as oxygen masks dropped from the ceiling. Some passengers wondered if they would ever hug their children again. At least one bought in-flight Wi-Fi as the jet descended so he could say goodbye to his loved ones.

A blown engine on a Southwest Airlines jet Tuesday hurled shrapnel at the aircraft and led to the death of a passenger who was nearly sucked out a broken window.

The terrifying chain of events on Flight 1380 brought out acts of bravery among the 149 passengers and crew members and drew across-the-board praise for the cool-headed pilot who safely guided the crippled Boeing 737 to an emergency landing in Philadelphia.

A BANG, THEN 'EVERYONE IS LIKE FREAKING OUT'

Alfred Tumlinson was traveling with his wife back to Corpus Christi, Texas, after attending a Texas Farm Bureau gala in New York City. About 30 minutes after the flight took off from La Guardia Airport, they heard a boom at about 32,000 feet over Pennsylvania, and the plane started descending.

A second bang followed, said Marty Martinez, a 29-year-old digital marketing specialist heading home to Dallas. That was when he saw a window blown open about two rows ahead of him on the other side of the plane.

"It felt like the plane was freefalling. ... Of course, everyone is like freaking out, everybody is crying. It was the scariest experience," Martinez told CBS News.

Air rushed through the suddenly depressurized cabin, and "all this debris is flying in your face, down to the aisle of the plane, into the back of the plane," Tumlinson said.

As those aboard started putting their masks on and helping others with theirs, passengers and crew members rushed to reach a woman who was being sucked out head-first through the opening. By at least one passenger's account, half her body was outside the plane.

A HERO IN A COWBOY HAT

A man in a cowboy hat, rancher Tim McGinty of Hillsboro, Texas, tore his mask off and struggled to pull the woman in. Andrew Needum, a firefighter from Celina, Texas, came to help, and the two of them managed to drag her back inside.

"It seemed like two minutes and it seemed like two hours," McGinty told reporters, a bandage on an arm he scraped while trying to save the woman.

McGinty's wife, Kristin McGinty, who was also on board, later told USA Today: "Some heroes wear capes, but mine wears a cowboy hat."

When a flight attendant asked if anyone knew CPR, retired school nurse Peggy Phillips got out of her seatbelt, and she and the firefighter laid the grievously injured woman down. The two of them began administering CPR for about 20 minutes, until the plane landed.

Jennifer Riordan, a 43-year-old Wells Fargo bank executive and mother of two from Albuquerque, New Mexico, didn't survive.

"If you can possibly imagine going through the window of an airplane at about 600 mph and hitting either the fuselage or the wing with your body, with your face, then I think I can probably tell you there was significant trauma," Phillips told ABC.

CALM IN THE COCKPIT

Inside the cockpit, pilot Tammie Jo Shults calmly communicated the severity of the situation.

"Injured passengers, OK, and is your airplane physically on fire?" an air traffic controller could be heard asking in a recording of the transmissions.

"No, it's not on fire, but part of it is missing," Shults said, pausing briefly. "They said there's a hole and, uh, someone went out."

The air traffic controller responded with seeming disbelief: "Um, I'm sorry, you said there was a hole and somebody went out?"

"Yes," Shults said.

SAYING FAREWELL VIA THE INTERNET

Some passengers took to social media to say their goodbyes to friends and family.

Matt Tranchin, who was heading home to Dallas, began texting his eight-months-pregnant wife and his parents that he loved them and telling them things he wanted his unborn son to know if the plane crashed and he didn't make it.

Martinez had the presence of mind to enter his credit card information to get Wi-Fi and made a Facebook Live post showing him and other passengers with oxygen masks on, the wind whipping in the background.

"I literally bought WiFi as the plane was going down because I wanted to be able to reach the people I loved ... thinking these were my final moments on earth," he wrote on Facebook.

'I THOUGHT IT WAS THE END OF MY LIFE'

As the plane descended steeply but steadily toward Philadelphia, the cabin was noisy from the open window, but the passengers were mostly quiet, maybe because they had their masks on, said passenger Amanda Bourman, of New York.

"Everybody was crying and upset. You had a few passengers that were very strong and they kept yelling to people, you know, 'It's OK! We're going to do this!'" Bourman said. "I just remember holding my husband's hand, and we just prayed and prayed and prayed."

For Kristopher Johnson, a single thought flooded his mind: his wife and 13-month-old son Jakob.

"I thought it was the end of my life," Johnson, an assistant principal at East Montana Middle School in El Paso, Texas, told People.com. "I thought I'd never be able to see my son or my wife or my family again. That was the first thing that rushed through my head."

Kathy Farnan, 77-year-old from Santa Fe, New Mexico, said people seated near her in the front, away from the damage, remained relatively calm. "There was no panic. Everybody was good. I think it was too early in the morning. People are running on half asleep," she said.

Eric Zilbert, an administrator with the California Education Department, said even the children "did very well."

'NERVES OF STEEL'

Passengers praised Shults for her professionalism during emergency. Shults, one of the first female fighter pilots in the Navy, was at the controls when the jet landed, according to her husband, Dean Shults.

She got a round of applause from the passengers after putting the plane down safely. She walked through the aisle and talked with passengers to make sure they were OK afterward.

"She has nerves of steel, that lady," Tumlinson said. "I'm going to send her a Christmas card, I'm going to tell you that, with a gift certificate for getting me on the ground. She was awesome."Tension over the drought-stressed Colorado River escalated into a public feud when four U.S. states accused Arizona's largest water provider of manipulating supply and demand, potentially threatening millions of people in the United States and Mexico who rely on the river.

The four states — Colorado, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming — plus Denver's water utility said the Central Arizona Project was trying to avoid a reduction in its share of the Colorado River while others are voluntarily cutting back to avoid a crisis amid a prolonged drought.

"It's one water user taking advantage of a situation for their own benefit, to the detriment of a river that supplies nearly 40 million people," said Jim Lochhead, manager of Denver Water, which gets about half its supply from the Colorado River.

The Central Arizona Project denied the allegations and said it's been conserving. The utility uses canals, pipelines and aqueducts to carry water 336 miles (540 kilometers) from the Colorado River to about 5 million people in central and southern Arizona.

The Colorado River is the lifeblood of the southwestern U.S. and northwestern Mexico, but it's under increasing strain because demand is rising while the river is shrinking. Researchers blame an 18-year drought and climate change for the decline.

The outlook is getting worse. Last winter was exceptionally dry across most of the central and southern Rocky Mountains, so there will be below-average melting snow to feed the river.

The dispute over the Central Arizona Project revolves around how much water flows from the upper part of the Colorado River system to the lower. The upper part, called the Upper Basin, includes the four states challenging the Arizona utility. The Lower Basin includes Arizona, California and Nevada.

Each basin is entitled to about half the river's water under rules laid out in a collection of interstate agreements, court rulings and international treaties. To make sure the Lower Basin states get their share, the Upper Basin states send water from the massive Lake Powell reservoir to the even bigger Lake Mead reservoir downstream. In 2007, the Upper Basin states agreed to send Lake Mead additional water if conditions were right to keep that reservoir from dropping too low.

The Upper Basin states now claim the Central Arizona Project is manipulating its share in a way that keeps Lake Mead low enough that the Upper Basin is required to send extra water, but high enough to avoid mandatory cutbacks in Lower Basin consumption.

Ted Cooke, general manager of the Central Arizona Project, called that level the "sweet spot." In remarks posted on the project's website, he indicated the utility wants to keep Lake Mead there for as long as possible.

That prompted the four Upper Basin states to send Arizona an unusually blunt letter Friday. They accused the Central Arizona Project of ignoring the river's dire condition and endangering water supplies for millions of people. They warned they wouldn't voluntarily conserve water if the Arizona utility was going to take it.

In an interview, the Colorado representative who signed the letter, James Eklund, said the Arizona utility has made "gaming the system" a policy goal.

"That's just not conducive to collaboration," he said.

Lochhead sent his own letter to Arizona officials on Monday, saying Denver Water would stop contributing to a fund that promotes Colorado River conservation unless the Central Arizona Project stopped manipulating the river.

In a tweet last week, Cooke denied the utility was manipulating the river and described its practices as wise management.

He declined comment this week through a spokeswoman. The utility released a written statement saying it was surprised and disappointed by the Upper Basin states' letter and wanted to "clarify apparent misunderstandings."

What happens next wasn't immediately clear. Eklund said the topic could come up at meetings this month among the Colorado River states and federal officials.

The states have a long history of cooperating on ways to conserve the waterway, Eklund said, and the Upper Basin states want that to continue.

He said they can't afford to wait, because another dry winter could trigger mandatory cutbacks for water users under the rules governing the river.

"We're really hoping that we get good precipitation, but that is not something we can control," Eklund said. "What we can control is how we deal with each other."

___

Follow Dan Elliott at http://twitter.com/DanElliottAP. His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/dan%20elliott .The North Carolina pastor on trial in Turkey this week on what have been seen as questionable terrorism charges is hardly the only American citizen who has been arrested, jailed and harassed by an increasingly anti-U.S. Turkish government.

And while Andrew Brunson is at least getting his day in court -- along with the support of two members of Congress who are attending the trial -- the fate of other Americans being held in the Turkish legal system is much murkier.

NASA physicist and Houston resident Serkan Golge is one of those Americans. Convicted in a Turkish court on what were widely perceived as trumped-up charges, he was sentenced in February to seven and a half years in prison.

Golge’s nightmare began just weeks after the botched 2016 coup attempt in Turkey, while he was visiting relatives in Antaya, a city in the country's south, near the Syrian border.

According to Golge's wife, Kubra, the family were packing up a car with their two young sons -- now 2 and 7 -- and preparing for their trip back to Texas when plainclothes officers arrived and searched their luggage. Nothing was found.

Hours later, police returned to search the house where they had been staying. Again, nothing was found. But investigators appeared yet again, and located a single U.S. dollar bill -- one of the pieces of supposed evidence used to prop up claims that he had "terrorist ties."

Golge was charged with being a CIA operative and a supporter of Fethullah Gulen, the Pennsylvania-based Muslim cleric that the Turkish government of President Tayyip Erdogan blames for the coup attempt. The Turkish government has asked for Gulen's extradition, a request that has gone nowhere based on lack of evidence, according to U.S. officials.

Associates close to Golge told Fox News that while he was under interrogation, authorities said he could “earn his freedom” by returning to the U.S and working as a spy for the Turkish intelligence agency, known as MIT. But he vehemently refused – and has since been singled out for harsh treatment that includes solitary confinement and "psychological torture," according to sources.

The prosecutor’s case apparently came courtesy of an in-law who made up the accusation due to a family disagreement over a piece of land that didn’t even directly involve Golge, sources said. Golge’s mother and wife were not permitted to testify on his behalf.

Kubra is allowed to visit her husband once a week, and said he’s trying to stay optimistic. But he suffers from health issues, and was recently hospitalized for a kidney stone. Golge’s family was not notified that he was sick.

Kubra herself is under a “travel ban” and remains in Turkey, for reasons that have not been made clear to her. She has been forced to sell the family house in Houston to make ends meet.

And Golge faces an uncertain professional future, even if he were to be released from prison. His job, a research position in conjunction with NASA and the University of Houston, was eliminated after his conviction, “when it became

known … he would be detained long term,” according to a spokesperson for the school.

Those who studied and worked alongside Golge had nothing but glowing things to say.

“He is a very kind, genuine, and supportive colleague. He wants everyone to have the best possible chance to succeed, and he will do his part to support even if all he can do is provide encouragement,” said Alicia Hofler, who studied alongside Golge as he was completing his doctoral dissertation at Old Dominion University in Virginia.

“When he moved to Texas to work as a NASA contractor, we kept in contact via email. His emails always brightened my day. He has a great sense of humor that is never spiteful or mean-spirited. He always asked about my family and kept me up to date on his new life in Texas.”

Arne Freyberger, who served as Serkan’s co-adviser while he was completing his dissertation, told Fox News the thesis topic developed a new concept for the production of a positron beam. “Working with Serkan, watching him develop, grow and transition from a student into a self-sustaining scientist, is one of the highlights of my career,” said Freyberger. “Serkan was very appreciative of his good fortune in life.”

Freyberger said Golge would often reflect on his good fortune in coming from Turkey and embracing the American dream. “Selected and admitted into the ODU graduation program, obtaining U.S. citizenship, amazed that some of his concepts panned out, getting married and starting a family,” Freyberger said. “He never took anything for granted and never let what appeared to be an insurmountable obstacle stop him.”

Golge studied space radiation at NASA, with the goal of making it safer for astronauts at the space station -- a project cut short by his arrest. His colleague, Kevin Beard, called his contributions “world-class.”

Another Turkish-American citizen, 26-year-old Nilufer Sonmez, was just released from a Turkish jail in February, after almost a year behind bars. She and her brother, Teoman, were taken into custody in April 2017.

“Intelligence officials accused me of using a cryptoprogram that coup plotters were using to communicate,” she told Fox News from the Turkish capital of Ankara, where she remains “under probation” – unable to leave Turkey for the United States. But the real reason Sonmez and her brother we taken in, she said, “was to abuse our father.”

Sonmez’s father, Adm. Nejat Atilla Demirhan, was among the thousands of military officers swept up in the aftermath of the coup. He was arrested in part, Sonmez said, because he had spent so much time in the United States.

Demirhan was sent by the Turkish military to study in Northern California, where Sonmez was born. She spent much of her childhood in Turkey before the family were again relocated to Virginia in her teenage years.

Sonmez said she made it through her imprisonment with the help of visiting officials from the U.S. Embassy, who were able to get her medical treatment for a blood pressure problem.

“I was trying to be strong, but the lady from the embassy was so upset for me she was crying,” Sonmez recalled. “She kept asking what she could do to help.”

But with their father now serving a life sentence, and as they try to piece their lives together, Sonmez – who married 18 months before her arrest -- said her new-found freedom is fraught. Even a night out with her friends and passage through a checkpoint on the way home -- in which all their identification cards are scanned by police --induces a sensation of panic.

“You just don’t know who will end up behind bars next,” she said, mustering a defiant smile.I applaud President Trump’s efforts to apply maximum pressure on North Korea at the same time he is seeking a diplomatic resolution to the crisis caused by the rogue regime’s development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles. But I have a warning for him: Mr. President, be careful – be very careful – and don’t trust the North Koreans. They have a long record of lying again and again to your predecessors.

CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s historic meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, confirmed by President Trump on Wednesday, is the strongest signal yet that President Trump’s dual-track approach is paying off.

But we have every reason to be skeptical.

History cries out for the U.S. and our allies to be cautious in dealing with the North. Only the verified actions of the North Koreans should unlock a change in our policies towards them. No amount of their words or vague promises should ever be rewarded.

When it comes to dealing with North Korea, we are very much in the land of the unknown.

We went through a tumultuous 2017, filled with missile test after missile test flying through the skies of Asia –some directly over Japan – along with a hydrogen bomb test and North Korean threats of war. We should thank our lucky stars that our worst fears never came to pass.

And in fact, a new year seems to have opened new possibilities. For whatever reason – whether economic isolation, the realization that his nation was on an unsustainable path, or demands by his Chinese masters – Kim has been doing all he can to rehabilitate his image and his nation’s.

After Kim delivered a New Year’s Day speech in which he embraced South Korea’s Olympic Games that led to North Korean participation in the games, the stage was set for a rapprochement between the North and South.

Following multiple rounds of diplomacy between both sides, the world will watch televised coverage of a summit between Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in on April 27.

The North-South summit could formally end the Korean War by beginning negotiations on a peace treaty to replace an armistice that halted fighting in 1953. That might shape a dramatic change in relations for both nations. Add in the ever-growing possibility of a U.S.-North Korea summit and even a Japan-North Korea summit.

All this makes the world ever more hopeful that the long crisis on the Korean Peninsula could very well be coming to an end.

But before we get too optimistic about a peaceful resolution of the Korean crisis and start expecting the North to abandon its nuclear weapons, let’s be realistic. Kim has worked hard to build up his nuclear arsenal and has every reason – short of imminent regime collapse – to hold onto his nukes.

Kim sees nuclear weapons as his life insurance policy for his regime and for himself – a deterrent that protects his country from a military confrontation with the U.S., South Korea, or Japan – or all three combined. Such a confrontation could depose his regime and end with the death of many North Koreans – including Kim.

Only the most senior U.S. officials have any idea what Kim might be thinking or what he has conveyed to U.S. diplomats. But the danger is clear: North Korea could be doing all it can to offer very broad guarantees to suck in the U.S. and its allies into multiple summits – and years of protracted negotiations – without giving up anything at all.

Meetings with President Trump and with South Korean leaders will enable Kim to look like a global statesman and boost his status. His image and profile will be slowly rehabilitated – showing North Koreans he can stand toe-to-toe with the world’s most powerful nation and be respected as an equal.

This would give the North Korean dictator a huge boost domestically, showing that he deserves the respect and loyalty of his people, as he has stared down and brought to heel the American imperial menace.

How will we know that this is Kim’s ploy?

First, look for North and South Korea to make no mention of the removal of nuclear weapons in their talks next week. North Korea has insisted in the past that such an issue can only be resolved between Washington and Pyongyang. Seoul, eager to create the atmosphere for better relations and a diplomatic breakthrough, will likely punt this topic to President Trump’s summit with Kim.

Next, look for the North Koreans to offer President Trump a deal to denuclearize over a long period of time, with multiple rounds of negotiations – but only after they get the benefit of a sit-down meeting with the leader of the free world.

If North Korea is unwilling to tip its hand before the meeting with President Trump – or is unwilling to make any concrete promises before the meeting that can be vetted by U.S. officials involving denuclearization in the form of a roadmap – President Trump should walk away and cancel the summit.

And from here, things get even dicer.

If the Trump administration’s goal is to see a fully denuclearized North Korea – and if Kim is willing to talk before a summit – we must have Pyongyang define what the term “denuclearize” means. The meaning may seem obvious – getting rid of every single nuclear weapon and never building another – but it’s easy to see North Korea arguing over what the term means.

Once we define denuclearization, what exact time frame would the North Koreans agree to accomplish this? What would they want in return? We should not give the North any benefits until the process is complete.

And – of absolutely critical importance – how would any action North Korea takes to get rid of its nuclear weapons be verified beyond doubt? A claim by the North that it has taken action without proof is worthless.

If North Korea will not provide answers to these questions, President Trump’s goal can’t be accomplished. And that means we should not give Kim the photo-op with President Trump that he so badly desires.

And unless and until America gets the verifiable agreement that satisfies the Trump administration, our policy of maximum pressure on North Korea should be maintained and strengthened.

Clearly, we are entering historic times in Northeast Asia. Yes, there is a possibility that Kim might be willing to get rid of his nuclear weapons – but that possibility is remote. Or perhaps he might be willing to limit his nuclear and missile force and never expand it.

But history screams out. It tells us to reread its warn pages when it comes to North Korea and realize that – more likely than not – Kim is laying the groundwork to dupe us again with false promises he has no intention of keeping.

Be cautious, President Trump. Chances are this is all a giant ruse.U.S. military aircraft dropped more bombs in Afghanistan last month than against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, according to a new Air Force strike report from its Central Command headquarters in the Middle East, a sign the war against ISIS is winding down.

In March, U.S. jets and drones fired roughly 350 bombs and other munitions against the Taliban and an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan. Meanwhile, in Iraq and Syria, the U.S. military dropped around 300 bombs against the last remnants of ISIS, as the terror army moves underground after losing tens of thousands of fighters.

The number of bombs dropped against ISIS in Iraq and Syria last month was the fewest recorded since airstrikes began in August 2014. In comparison, the U.S. dropped more than 5,000 bombs in August 2017 against ISIS in Iraq and Syria making the March 2018 total just 5 percent of the month’s peak less than a year ago.

THREAT OF FOREIGN TERRORISTS MORE GLOBAL THAN EVER, REPORT FINDS

U.S. officials claim most of the ISIS-affiliated fighters in Afghanistan are mostly Pakistani Taliban, who have pledged loyalty to the Islamic State, but are not receiving a great deal of material or monetary support from the group’s leaders.

Last week, American, French and British forces launched 105 missiles against three of Assad’s chemical weapons facilities in Syria following an alleged chemical weapons attack outside Damascus by the regime which killed more than 40 civilians, including women and children. But the Pentagon says the mission in Syria remained the war against ISIS.

Tuesday, an American military spokesman warned ISIS had shown signs of life in areas controlled by the Assad regime and their Russian and Iranian backers.

“In the pro-regime area west of the Euphrates River, we have seen a resurgence or rather some ISIS elements coming back and attacking with success,” said U.S. Army Col. Ryan Dillon, a spokesman for the U.S.-led coalition “There has been ISIS elements who have been able to come back and take territory as I mentioned some of the neighborhoods in southern Damascus.”

Col. Dillon refused to estimate how many ISIS fighters remain.next

prev

Marian Kalwary can still hear the faint chant of a thin little girl trying to sell insoles to people on a street of the Warsaw ghetto and get food. No one bought them and some days later the girl vanished from the street.

"Maybe she was too weak to come, or maybe she just died" of hunger, says Kalwary who spent two years in the ghetto as a boy before he was daringly led out in 1942, several months before the occupying Nazi Germans liquidated the ghetto, killing or sending its residents to a death camp.

On Thursday, the 87-year-old Kalwary will take part in daylong 75th anniversary observances honoring the fighters of the Warsaw ghetto uprising who took up arms to oppose the German troops as they were moving in to end the ghetto's existence.

The uprising broke out April 19, 1943, when about 750 young Jewish fighters armed with just pistols and other light arms attacked a German force more than three times its size. In their last testaments they said they knew they were doomed but wanted to die at a time and place of their own choosing.

Only a few dozen of the fighters survived, most killed when the Germans crushed the revolt, and of those, most are either no longer living or are no longer strong enough to attend the observances in Warsaw.

Kalwary recalled his own escape from the ghetto.

One July day in 1942, he was alone in the tiny room he had occupied with his mother in the ghetto and someone knocked on the door. It was a messenger from a nearby court, with a fake summons for him as a witness.

"Are you Marian Kalwary?" he asked. "Yes" the 11-year-old boy replied.

"There is a summons for you as a witness from the court, get dressed right away and go because they are waiting for you there," he recalled the messenger saying.

He was then led by a bribed court guard through a labyrinth of narrow corridors to the Aryan side where a Polish friend of the family was waiting for him, and immediately took him to a hairdresser to have his black curly hair shaved off, a precaution to make him less likely to be perceived as Jewish.

He then went through an odyssey of moving among various hiding places, and he and his mother survived the war.

Looking back to his time in the ghetto, the horror of dead bodies lying in the street and sad-faced children begging, Kalwary says he is horrified to see violence in the world today and what he asserts is the rise in Poland of the same ideas that drove Nazi Germany into starting World War II and the Holocaust — notions that had long been condemned and seemed banished.

"I am terrified by the rebirth of fascism and nationalism and I can see nationalism being glorified and put on a pedestal as something noble," Kalwary told The Associated Press. "Nationalism is being confused with patriotism."

He gave as an example the recent veneration of some right-wing wartime resistance groups that killed civilians, including Jews, for political reasons.

He said he finds no explanation for that other than "stupidity and lack of empathy" and an upbringing in some families in Poland, where he contends that some say under their breath that Hitler was guilty of evil things but that he also "'freed us from the Jews.'"

"I cannot understand that," he said.

Before the war, about 10 percent of Poland's population of around 35 million were Jews, the largest Jewish population in Europe. No one knows the exact number of survivors, but only 30,000 registered after the war with Jewish organizations.

Looking at the conflicts in the world today, Kalwary said sadly "We are living in nasty times. History is repeating itself."Ecuador's President Lenin Moreno said he is suspending his country's role as a mediator in peace talks between Colombia's government and the nation's last major rebel army.

Moreno told Colombia's RCN network on Wednesday that he took the decision because the National Liberation Army continues to carry out "terrorist" acts even while negotiating an end to hostilities.

Peace talks between the ELN and Colombia's government have been taking place in Ecuador for more than a year. But they've suffered numerous setbacks, and a temporary cease-fire between the two sides expired in January without yet being renewed.

In recent days, small towns in the volatile Catatumbo region of northeast Colombia have been paralyzed by guerrilla fighting between the ELN and a much-smaller rebel grouparticle

US stocks finished broadly higher Wednesday, giving the S&P 500 its third gain in as many days.

Continue Reading Below

Energy companies rose more than the rest of the market, riding a big upturn in crude oil prices. Solid gains in industrial stocks and retailers outweighed losses among food and beverage companies, technology stocks and banks.

Investors continued to bid up companies that reported positive earnings or outlooks. Not all companies delivered welcome results. IBM slumped 7.5 percent, single-handedly pulling the Dow Jones industrial average into the red.

"Earnings are the principal thing this week," said Paul Christopher, head of global market strategy for Wells Fargo Investment Institute. "The market wants to see more consistent evidence of strong earnings."

The S&P 500 index rose 2.25 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,708.64. The Dow slid 38.56 points, or 0.2 percent, to 24,748.07. The Nasdaq composite gained 14.14 points, or 0.2 percent, to 7,295.24. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks picked up 3.76 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,583.56.

The major stock indexes are all on track to finish the week higher.

Advertisement

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.87 percent from 2.83 percent late Tuesday.

Investors continued to sift through corporate earnings reports. Financial analysts are forecasting the strongest growth in seven years for S&P 500 companies, partly because of a resurgent global economy, but also because of expectations that last year's corporate tax cut will have on corporate balance sheets.

Roughly 10 percent of the companies in the S&P 500 have reported results so far this earnings season, and some 67 percent of those have delivered both earnings and revenue that exceeded financial analysts' expectations, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence.

Railroad operator CSX jumped 7.8 percent to $61.01 and aircraft maker Textron climbed 6.8 percent to $63.99 after reporting results that beat analysts' forecasts.

United Continental rose 4.8 percent to $70.58 after the airline company raised its earnings outlook for the year.

Best Buy added 3.6 percent to $75.40 after announcing a partnership to sell Fire TVs with Amazon.

IBM was the biggest decliner in the S&P 500, sliding 7.5 percent to $148.79. That's its biggest loss in five years. The technology company's results failed to impress investors.

Oil futures surged, pushing closer to $70 a barrel. The pickup in the price of crude came as Reuters published a report citing unnamed industry sources saying that Saudi Arabia would be happy to see crude oil prices hit $100 a barrel.

Benchmark U.S. crude rose $1.95, or 2.9 percent, to settle at $68.47 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added $1.90, or 2.7 percent, to close at $73.48 per barrel in London.

"If you look at the activity in oil over the last couple of weeks, it almost seems like it's destined to flirt with the $70 level to see if it can break through," said JJ Kinahan, chief market strategist for TD Ameritrade. "The market seems very comfortable between this $58 and $70-ish area."

The surge in oil prices helped lift energy stocks. Newfield Exploration added 5.9 percent to $28.89.

The dollar gained to 107.26 yen from Tuesday's 107.02 yen. The euro rose to $1.2377 from $1.2367.

Gold rose $4 to $1,353.50 an ounce. Silver gained 46 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $17.25 an ounce. Copper added 8 cents to $3.16 a pound.

In other energy futures trading, heating oil rose 3 cents to $2.09 a gallon. Wholesale gasoline picked up 3 cents to $2.07 a gallon. Natural gas was little changed at $2.74 per 1,000 cubic feet.

Major stock indexes in Europe finished mostly higher. Germany's DAX was ended flat, while France's CAC 40 rose 0.5 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 added 1.3 percent. Indexes in Asia ended higher. Tokyo's Nikkei 225 rose 1.4 percent, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng added 0.7 percent. Seoul's Kospi rose 1.1 percent.article

The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):

Continue Reading Below

4 p.m.

Stocks are closing broadly higher on Wall Street as investors respond to some positive company earnings reports.

Railroad operator CSX jumped 7.8 percent Wednesday and aircraft maker Textron rose 6.8 percent after reporting results that beat analysts' forecasts.

Best Buy climbed 3.6 percent after announcing a partnership to sell Fire TVs with Amazon.

IBM slumped 7.5 percent after its results failed to impress investors, pulling the Dow Jones industrial average lower.

Advertisement

Oil prices rose, lifting energy companies. Devon Energy climbed 7.2 percent.

The S&P 500 index rose 2 points, or 0.1 percent, to 2,708.

The Dow lost 38 points, or 0.2 percent, to 24,748. The Nasdaq composite climbed 14 points, or 0.2 percent, to 7,295.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.87 percent.

___

11:45 a.m.

Stocks are modestly higher in midday trading, bouncing back from an early wobble and extending gains from a day earlier.

Gains by retailers and industrial companies outweighed losses in technology Wednesday.

Best Buy climbed 3 percent after announcing a partnership to sell Fire TVs and smart TV's through Amazon.

Railroad operator CSX jumped 6.1 percent and industrial conglomerate Textron rose 7.6 percent after reporting results beat analysts' forecasts.

Energy stocks climbed as crude oil prices surged. Devon Energy rose 5.4 percent.

The S&P 500 index rose 7 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,713.

The Dow Jones industrial average rose 17 points, or 0.1 percent, to 24,802. The Nasdaq composite climbed 17 points, or 0.2 percent, to 7,297.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.85 percent.

___

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening modestly higher on Wall Street after several companies reported encouraging quarterly results.

Morgan Stanley, railroad operator CSX and industrial conglomerate Textron were all solidly higher in early trading Wednesday after their results beat analysts' forecasts.

Best Buy climbed 3 percent after announcing a partnership to sell Fire TVs and smart TV's through Amazon.

The S&P 500 index rose 6 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,712.

The Dow Jones industrial average gained 20 points, or 0.1 percent, to 24,804. The Nasdaq composite climbed 10 points, or 0.2 percent, to 7,290.

Bond prices didn't move much. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note held steady at 2.83 percent.This year is shaping up to be a very different year from 2017, with volatility returning to the markets after a prolonged period of calmness. With this change in mind, Credit Suisse analysts completed a checkup of the markets and gave an update on which sectors of the market merit the most – and least – optimism.

Continue Reading Below

Starting with the positive, according to Credit Suisse, the technology, financial and discretionary sectors are where the opportunities are and have Overweight ratings.

Technology

Credit Suisse notes that the tech sector has been one of the top performers throughout the nine-year recovery from the 2008-2009 recession, driven by superior fundamentals. Since mid-2016, tech has delivered more than twice the market's return, with all subgroups outperforming. Credit Suisse analysts see the group’s revenue growth extending. They are optimistic that the group will continue to return capital to shareholders, but noted that within the sector, they are less inspired by hardware-related tech stocks.

Financials

Credit Suisse is also bullish on financials, noting that since mid-2016, the only sector that has delivered stronger results is technology. Positives for the financial sector include an improving economic backdrop, rising interest rates, a decreased regulatory burden and strong credit performance, which have driven the recent performance and will continue in 2018. Credit Suisse expects all sub-groups of the financial sector will deliver earnings growth above the market.

Advertisement

Discretionary

The discretionary sector includes companies that produce or sell goods and services that are considered non-essential by consumers. While these goods are not necessary, consumers are interested in buying them when they have the extra income to purchase. When the economy is doing well, demand for discretionary goods increases.

It makes sense that Credit Suisse is positive on the sector, given U.S. economic strength. The bank said that since mid-2016, this sector’s performance has been deceiving, with internet retail up by 112% and the remainder of the group lagging –clear evidence of the Amazon effect. Credit Suisse says growth for internet retail remains strong, but valuations are extended compared with benchmarks. When valuations are extended, analysts start to consider how much further a stock, or section of the market, has to rally.

Within old consumer stocks, brick-and-mortar retailers and media look positive because of improving consumption and tax benefits, according to Credit Suisse. Within this sector, the weakest expectations are for autos.

Credit Suisse is less optimistic about telecom, REITs and utilities – and are Underweight on the three sectors.

Telecom

Rising interest rates have pressured telecoms since 2016, while increased competition weighed on the sector’s revenues and earnings last year. The bank’s expectations for the sector in 2018 have improved, with tax-reform-related benefits a positive. While they are underweight on the sector, Credit Suisse says valuation makes it attractive.

More from FOX Business US manufacturers seek relief from steel and aluminum tariffs

REITs

Real estate investment trusts (REITS) have performed negatively since mid-2016 because of rising interest rates. There is plenty of pressure on the sector from weaker retail demand and rising residential capacity.

Utilities

This is another sector that is negatively affected by rising interest rates, and it has delivered negative returns since mid-2016. Credit Suisse sees negative revenue and earnings trends for the sector. Potential positives include attractive valuations and solid dividends.article

Global stock markets followed Wall Street higher Wednesday despite a Chinese tariff hike on U.S. sorghum in a swelling trade dispute with Washington.

Continue Reading Below

KEEPING SCORE: In early trading, London's FTSE 100 rose 0.7 percent to 7,278.02 and France's CAC 40 added 0.5 percent to 5,379.95. German's DAX advanced 0.3 percent to 12,630.42. On Tuesday, the DAX climbed 1.6 percent, the CAC 40 rose 0.8 percent and the FTSE 100 added 0.4 percent. On Wall Street, futures for the Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500 index gained 0.1 percent.

ASIA'S DAY: The Shanghai Composite Index gained 0.8 percent to 3,091.40 and Tokyo's Nikkei 225 rose 1.4 percent to 22,158.20. Hong Kong's Hang Seng advanced 0.7 percent to 30,284.25 and Sydney's S&P-ASX 200 added 0.3 percent to 5,861.40. Seoul's Kospi gained 1.1 percent to 2,479.98 and India's Sensex edged up 0.1 percent to 34,435.59. Benchmarks in Taiwan, New Zealand and Southeast Asia also rose.

TRADE TENSIONS: China imposed preliminary anti-dumping tariffs of 178.6 percent on U.S. sorghum. The United States told the World Trade Organization it has agreed to discuss with China the Trump administration's tariff increases on steel and other Chinese goods. President Donald Trump has threatened to raise tariffs on up to $150 billion of Chinese goods due to disputes over technology policy, market access and Beijing's trade surplus with the United States. China responded with its own list of U.S. goods for retaliation. Investors worry other governments might raise their own import barriers.

ANALYST'S TAKE: "Shares rose despite another ratcheting up of trade barriers, this time from China," Michael McCarthy of CMC Markets said in a report. "The measured response of U.S. trading partners has soothed market worries."

CHINA AUTOS: Beijing announced it would allow full foreign ownership in its auto industry in five years, ending restrictions that irked Washington and other governments. The Cabinet's planning agency said it would start by allowing full foreign ownership of producers of electric cars, with similar action later on commercial and traditional passenger vehicles. China is the biggest auto market but until now global automakers have been required to work through partnerships with state-owned partners, an arrangement that forces them to share technology with potential competitors.

Advertisement

U.S. ECONOMY: The International Monetary Fund upgraded its economic outlook for the United States in 2018, forecasting growth of 2.9 percent this year, up from the 2.7 percent it had forecast in January and from last year's 2.3 percent expansion. The Federal Reserve said last month's U.S. factory output rose slightly.

CHINESE ECONOMY: The world's second-largest economy grew by a stronger-than-expected 6.8 percent over a year earlier in the quarter ending in March. That was in line with the previous quarter, but activity weakened toward the end of the period. Forecasters expect growth to slow this year as Beijing tightens controls on bank lending and a real estate sales boom to curb rising deb.

JAPAN TRADE: Export growth in March edged up to 2.1 percent over a year earlier from the previous month's 1.8 percent. Imports contracted 0.6 percent from a year earlier, led by a 17 percent plunge in shipments from China. The country's global trade surplus was $7.4 billion.

ENERGY: Benchmark U.S. crude added 66 cents to $67.18 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract gained 30 cents on Tuesday to settle at $66.52 per barrel. Brent crude, used to price international oils, rose 61 cents to $72.19 per barrel in London. It advanced 16 cents the previous session to close at $71.58 per barrel.

CURRENCIES: The dollar gained to 107.28 yen from Tuesday's 107.00 yen. The euro slipped to $1.2365 from $1.2373.Chris Stapleton’s wife, Morgane, revealed her twin boys were born more than a month early in the first photo posted of the newborns.

In a black and white Instagram photo posted on Tuesday, Morgane thanked fans for their love and support on the birth of their sons. The couple had missed Sunday’s Academy of Country Music Awards because the babies had arrived early.

“Thank you for all the love! We’re so grateful to finally be home with our sweet family. We would like to say a special thank you to all the incredible nurses & doctors at Centennial Women’s & Children’s Hospital in Nashville,” Morgane wrote in the caption.

Morgane continued, “At more than a month early, we had a week-long stay in the NICU & the incredible people there kept our boys healthy & happy. Words cannot express our gratitude for you all & what you did for our family. From the bottom of our hearts, thank you!”

Stapleton reposted his wife’s message. The couple got married in 2007 and have two other children whose names have been kept private.

The birth of their sons was announced during the ACM Awards after host Reba McEntire explained Stapleton’s absence. Not only did Stapleton win Album of the Year and Male Vocalist of the year, it was also his 40th birthday on Sunday.

“Thank you for sharing our good news @Reba! We couldn’t have dreamed up a better day. Morgane & the boys are doing great & we appreciate everyone’s support!” the country singer wrote on Instagram Tuesday.Todd Starnes spoke with Fox News Military Analyst and host of War Stories Lt. Col. Oliver North about President Trump's decision to launch military strikes in Syria after a suspected chemical attack by the Assad regime.

North told Starnes, "The reality of it is it was a flawless mission. It was a limited mission. It was done to avoid entrapping us in the war in Syria, and it was done intentionally to avoid collateral damage. Not one single missile was interfered with or intercepted by Syrians, any aircraft or the Russians."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

North also shared his memories and fondness for First Lady Barbara Bush, who had passed away the previous day. North said, "The country is poorer for her not being with us anymore. My heart goes out to the president and their children. People who wouldn't have talked to Barbara Bush when she was alive are now sending kudos to what a wonderful person she was because she truly was a wonderful person."

Listen to the whole interview here:

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."Starbucks says they're closing thousands of their stores to conduct racial bias education. This comes after the coffee chain came under fire after the arrest of two black men at one of the chain's Philadelphia locations!

On Wednesday, Starbucks founder Howard Schultz went on CBS and said he was "ashamed" by the incident and his former employee was guilty of 'unconscious bias' for calling the police on the two black men for simply sitting there.

This outraged Tom Shillue.

On The Tom Shillue Show, Tom said Schultz was wrong to call the since-fired manager racist because she was simply following the store's policy. She accused of Schultz and the corporation is "cowering" to liberal pressure.A Jacksonville, FL store will not be cited or fined for flying military flags after being given a warning citation by a city employee who insulted a customer that turned out to be a veteran.

Melinda Power, the city's code compliance officer, issued citations for each of the flags flying outside the business but was later placed on leave after the incident went viral.

Shaun Jackrel, the owner of JaguarPowerSports, told Todd Starnes that Power was "just a bad apple that fell out of the wrong tree" and explain why he decided to go public about the confrontation. Jackrel said, "We wanted to make sure that we had a voice in this and that it didn't happen to any other businesses around town, so we wanted to get the word out, and it has been a lot bigger than we anticipated."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Listen to the whole interview here:Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

California Has Spoken! San Diego County voted Tuesday to become the latest in a string of local governments throughout California backing the Trump administration lawsuit against the state over its sanctuary city laws. As the second largest county in California, San Diego -- a region of 3 million residents that borders Mexico -- is the largest county to back the lawsuit. So will other counties follow their lead?Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Former First Lady Barbara Bush passed away yesterday at the age of 92. FOX's Dana Perino reflects on her life and legacy.

U.S. relations with Russia are even more strained after the airstrikes in Syria last week. Bill Courtney, former Ambassador to Georgia and Jonathan Wachtel, former spokesperson for U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley, discuss the history that's led to today's hostility.

Plus, commentary by Brian Kilmeade, FOX & Friends co-host and host of The Brian Kilmeade Show.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Remember Zander, when life gives you an omelet with american cheese just eat it...

Dana Perino, former White House Press Secretary, co-host of Fox News Channel's "The Five" and host of "The Daily Briefing" and Chris Stirewalt Fox News Politics Editor and host of "Power Play", run through the daily goings on in the world of politics.

This week Dana and Chris discuss the passing of First Lady Barbara Bush and her "beautiful life" and legacy. Plus, it's book club day...today's selection is Jordan Peterson's "12 Rules To Life: An Antidote To Chaos".

And, Chris looks to keep up his trivia hot streak.

LISTEN to "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What":

Follow Dana Perino on Twitter: @DanaPerino and Facebook

Plus pick up her books: "And The Good News Is..." and "Let Me Tell You About Jasper" now available in paperback.

Follow Chris Stirewalt on Twitter: @ChrisStirewalt and subscribe to his political news note: 'FOX News Halftime Report'

And pre-order his new book: "Every Man A King: A Short, Colorful History of American Populists"

Click HERE for more "Perino & Stirewalt: I'll Tell You What"Frank Abagnale Jr., the subject of the film Catch Me If You Can, spent his youth posing as a pilot, a doctor and forgeing about $2.5 million in checks. And that's just a few of the ways Abagnale used fraudulent documents and other tricks to dupe the FBI and whoever else he crossed path with.

Now the former fraudster helps the FBI fight fraud.

On Tuesday's show, Frank Abagnale Jr. joined Tom Shillue to discuss his incredible life as a teen runaway, how he turned his life around and how he became one of the country's most respected security and anti-fraud consultants.

In the video above, Abagnale shared some tips on how to avoid being the victim of identity theft!More Podcasts…

· The FOX News Rundown

Long form and in depth story telling of the major news item of the day.

· The Whip Around

In hurry? Start the day with this quick news podcast!

· Hourly Newscast

The news updated every hour!

· The Five

It’s the full primetime show. FREE!

· Perino & Stirewalt

Dana Perino & Chris Stirewalt dishing on politics news every week.

· The One w/ Greg Gutfeld

You know him. You love him. Greg Gutfeld.

· Livin’ the Bream

Inspirational stories, personal anecdotes and an insider’s perspective from Shannon Bream.

· HemmerTime

One on one with engaging personalities hosted by Bill Hemmer.Singer, comedian, ventriloquist and celebrity impressionist Terry Fator of "America's Got Talent" joined Tom Shillue to discuss his incredible career and how he turned his unique abilities into a Las Vegas empire.

Fator, accompanied by his newest character Paul McCartney, also took time to serenade Tom Shillue with a new take on the Beatles' classic "Hey Jude".

Tom Shillue, who is also a standup comic, talked shop with Fator and the so-called "stigma" of being a ventriloquist and how the comedy world. The massively successful Fator doesn't seem to let other comedians get to him and said he very proud of both abilities, his hard work and his success.