The Justice Department’s internal watchdog has sent a criminal referral for fired FBI official Andrew McCabe to the U.S. attorney’s office in Washington.

The move follows a recent DOJ inspector general report that found McCabe leaked a self-serving story to the press and later lied about it to then-Director James Comey and federal investigators, prompting Attorney General Jeff Sessions to fire him on March 16.

A source confirmed to Fox News that the referral was sent.

The Washington Post reported earlier that the IG referred the finding that McCabe misled investigators "some time ago," asking the top federal prosecutor for D.C. to examine whether he should be charged.

Representatives with the Justice Department, inspector general’s office and U.S. attorney’s office all declined to comment.

Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., backed the move in a tweet Thursday afternoon.

"The criminal referral from the IG is the right decision. It's about time we have some accountability for this type of conduct at the Justice Department," he said.

In an interview with CNN Thursday, Comey said that he had no knowledge of the referral, but confirmed that he could be a witness against McCabe if he is prosecuted.

"Given that the IG’s report reflects interactions that Andy McCabe had with me and other FBI senior executives, I could well be a witness," said Comey.

The former FBI Director added that he liked McCabe "very much as a person, but sometimes even good people do things they shouldn’t do ... I think it is accountability mechanisms working and they should work because it’s not acceptable in the FBI or the Justice Department for people to lack candor. It’s something we take really seriously."

In a statement, McCabe's legal team said they were advised of the referral "within the past few weeks."

"Although we believe the referral is unjustified, the standard for an IG referral is very low. We have already met with staff members from the U.S. Attorney’s Office. We are confident that, unless there is inappropriate pressure from high levels of the Administration, the US Attorney’s Office will conclude that it should decline to prosecute," they said.

While Comey may not have intentionally launched the investigation gunning for McCabe, it was spurred by a desire to find who leaked to The Wall Street Journal in October 2016 about an FBI probe of the Clinton Foundation. The story said a senior Justice Department official expressed displeasure to McCabe that FBI agents were still looking into the Clinton Foundation, and McCabe had defended agents' authority to pursue the issue.

That leak confirmed the existence of the probe into the Clinton Foundation, which Comey, who led the bureau at the time, refused to do.

Inspector General Michael Horowitz’s report said McCabe authorized the leak and then misled investigators about it, leaking in a way that did not fall under the “public interest” exception.

Horowitz found that McCabe lacked “candor” when questioned by FBI agents on multiple occasions, and that he told agents he did not authorize the disclosure and did not know who was responsible.

But McCabe’s legal counsel, Michael Bromwich, has blasted the inspector general report and has criticized Comey. The report said Comey and McCabe gave conflicting accounts about a conversation they had on the leak.

“The OIG should credit Mr. McCabe’s account over Director Comey’s,” Bromwich wrote to Horowitz in a letter, complaining that the report “paints Director Comey as a white knight carefully guarding FBI information, while overlooking that Mr. McCabe’s account is more credible…”

He issued a similar statement Wednesday in response to Comey's interview comments:

"In his comments this week about the McCabe matter, former FBI Director James Comey has relied on the accuracy and the soundness of the Office of the Inspector General's (OIG) conclusions in their report on Mr. McCabe. In fact, the report fails to adequately address the evidence (including sworn testimony) and documents that prove that Mr. McCabe advised Director Comey repeatedly that he was working with the Wall Street Journal on the stories in question prior to publication. Neither Mr. Comey nor the OIG is infallible, and in this case neither of them has it right."

On Thursday night, Comey told MSNBC that McCabe didn't tell him about plans to speak to the press.

“He didn’t tell me about it," Comey said. "He didn’t ask me about it before he did it. And I would’ve expected that. But I think he had the authority to do it. But I think as a matter of rule, he had the authority.”

On Wednesday, nearly a dozen Republican members of Congress sent their own criminal referral to the Justice Department and FBI seeking an investigation of McCabe, along with Comey, ex-Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Hillary Clinton and others.

GOP REPS REFER COMEY, CLINTON, MCCABE FOR CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION

The IG referral, however, could represent a more serious problem for McCabe.

Fox News' Catherine Herridge, Judson Berger, Pamela K. Browne, Samuel Chamberlain, Matt Richardson and Jake Gibson contributed to this report.President Trump late Thursday tweeted that the newly released memos written by former FBI Director James Comey “show clearly” no collusion with Russia in 2016 and no obstruction into the investigation.

The memos, which were written by Comey about his interaction with Trump, prove that the fired FBI director never felt obstructed, GOP lawmakers said. Many Democrats claim that Trump tried to hold up the FBI’s investigation into alleged collusion leading up to the 2016 election.

“James Comey Memos just out show clearly that there was NO COLLUSION and NO OBSTRUCTION. Also, he leaked classified information. WOW! Will the Witch Hunt continue?” Trump tweeted.

The memos also showed that eight days after he was sworn in as president, Trump told Comey during a one-on-one dinner at the White House that he "needed loyalty and expected loyalty."

Comey wrote that he "did not reply, or even nod or change my facial expression, which [Trump] noted because we came back to it later." At a later point, Comey wrote that Trump told him directly, "I need loyalty."

"I replied that he would always get honesty from me," said Comey. "[Trump] paused and said that's what he wants, 'honest loyalty.' I replied, 'you will get that from me.'"

"It is possible we understood that phrase differently," Comey added as a parenthetical, "but I chose to understand it as consistent with what I had said throughout the conversation: I will serve the President with loyalty to the office, the country, and the truth. I decided it would not be productive to push the subject further."

More than two months later, on March 30, Comey wrote that Trump had called him and pressed the FBI director to make public that the president was not under investigation over contacts between Russian officials and members of his campaign.

"I reminded [Trump] that I had told him we weren't investigating him and that I had told the Congressional leadership the same thing," Comey wrote. "[Trump] said it would be great if that could get out and several times asked me to find a way to get that out."

House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va.; House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy, R-S.C.; and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., said in a joint statement that Comey's memos "show the President made clear he wanted allegations of collusion, coordination, and conspiracy between his campaign and Russia fully investigated.

"The memos also made clear the 'cloud' President Trump wanted lifted was not the Russian interference in the 2016 election cloud, rather it was the salacious, unsubstantiated allegations related to personal conduct leveled in the dossier" compiled by ex-British spy Christopher Steele, they added.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., disagreed, tweeting that the memos "are further proof of [Trump's] contempt for the rule of law.

"His attempts to intimidate, circumvent the law & undermine integrity of law enforcement investigations demand immediate action to protect the Mueller investigation," she said.

The assurance from Comey that Trump was not being investigated seemed to have weighed on the president's mind as Michael Flynn was fired as national security adviser after misleading Vice President Mike Pence about contacts with the Russian envoy to the U.S.

Trump told Comey during their March 30 conversation that "if there was 'some satellite' (NOTE: I took this to mean some associate of his or his campaign) that did something, it would be good to find that out, but that he hadn't done anything," Comey recalled.

Comey said Trump restated at the end of their conversation that the president "hoped I could find a way to get out that he wasn't being investigated.

"I told him I would see what we could do and that we would do the work well and as quickly as we could," Comey said he responded.

Goodlatte, Gowdy and Nunes noted that Comey "never wrote that he felt obstructed or threatened," adding that while Comey "went to great lengths to set dining room scenes, discuss height requirements, describe the multiple times he felt complimented, and myriad other extraneous facts, he never once mentioned the most relevant fact of all, which was whether he felt obstructed in his investigation."

Trump called Comey again on April 11 to ask "if I did what he had asked last time -- getting out that he personally is not under investigation." Comey says he advised Trump to have White House Counsel Don McGahn call then-Acting Attorney General Dana Boente to request that such a statement be made.

After Trump said he would do so, Comey said the president told him, "I have been very loyal to you, very loyal, we had that thing, you know."

"I did not reply, or ask him what he meant by 'that thing,'" wrote Comey, who added that as Trump ended the call, the president told him he was "doing a great job and wished me well."

During their Jan. 27 dinner in the Green Room, Comey wrote that Trump "thought maybe he should ask me to investigate" salacious allegations "to prove [the dossier] was a lie."

Comey wrote that "it was up to [Trump], but I wouldn't want to create a narrative that we were investigating him, because we are not and I worried such a thing would be misconstrued."

"My sense is that [the president] was focused on the personal piece [of the dossier]," Comey told MSNBC Thursday night. "He would bring it up to me repeatedly."

Fox News' Chad Pergram and Edmund DeMarche contributed to this report.The Republican chairmen of three powerful House committees suggested Thursday that the numerous memos written by former FBI Director James Comey detailing his conversations with President Donald Trump "would be Defense Exhibit A" if Trump were charged with obstruction of justice.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman Robert Goodlatte, R-Va., House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., said in a joint statement: “We have long argued former Director Comey’s self-styled memos should be in the public domain, subject to any classification redactions. These memos are significant for both what is in them and what is not.”

The three chairmen questioned why “Comey never wrote that he felt obstructed or threatened,” while feeling the need “to memorialize conversations with President Trump,” rather than conversations with Democrats — “at least two different standards in his interactions with others.”

“These memos also lay bare the notion that former Director Comey is not motivated by animus,” they added about the memos that were released to lawmakers and obtained by Fox News on Thursday evening. “In his eyes, the real crime was his own firing.”

They said the memos “made clear (Trump) wanted allegations of collusion, coordination, and conspiracy between his campaign and Russia fully investigated” as well as “the salacious, unsubstantiated allegations related to personal conduct leveled in the dossier” compiled by ex-British spy Christopher Steele.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., responded by saying the memos showed Trump's “contempt for the rule of law.”

She continued in a tweet, “His attempts to intimidate, circumvent the law & undermine integrity of law enforcement investigations demand immediate action to protect the Mueller investigation” into alleged Russian collusion.

“President Trump’s interference was a blatant effort to deny justice, and Director Comey was right to document it as it happened—in real time,” House Oversight Committee Ranking Member Elijah Cummings, D-Md., added.

The memos, as Fox News reported, include details about several interactions in the first few months of the Trump administration. They include a January 2017 dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty, and a conversation the following month about former White House national security adviser Michael Flynn.

Some of the episodes have been recounted in Comey’s congressional testimony last year and in his new book, “A Higher Loyalty.”

The three House Republican committee chairmen had asked that un-redacted copies of the memos be made available last week, saying there is “no legal basis for withholding these materials from Congress.”

House Republicans repeatedly had threatened to hold Justice Department officials in contempt as they have sought more than a million pages in documents related to Democrat Hillary Clinton and the beginning of the department’s Russia investigation.

Fox News' Chad Pergram and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Former FBI Director James Comey, in a memo recounting a meeting with President Trump at Trump Tower on January 6, 2017, explained it was the first time he had informed the president about reports “involving him and prostitutes at the Presidential Suite at the Ritz Carlton in Moscow from about 2013.”

The revelation came in a series of memos released to congressional committees Thursday night and obtained by Fox News.

Comey said that while speaking with then-Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, Vice President Mike Pence and Trump, Priebus asked if there was anything “they should know or that might come out.” Comey said he proceeded to tell them about a private matter that outgoing Director of National Intelligence James Clapper wanted to alert to the president.

Once alone in the room with Trump, Comey said he wanted to tell the president about reports written by a redacted name, obtained by CNN, and how he didn’t want Trump to get “caught cold” by the details.

“The Russians allegedly had tapes involving him and prostitutes at the Presidential Suite at the Ritz Carlton in Moscow from about 2013,” he recalled in the memo. Comey then said Trump interjected that “there were no prostitutes, there were never prostitutes,” adding that the president noted he was “the kind of guy who didn’t need to 'go there.'”

According to the memo, Trump was surprised that if the media had the reports, “he couldn’t believe they hadn’t gone with it,” to which Comey replied that they “would get killed for reporting straight up from the source reports.”

Comey then told Trump that “the stuff might be totally made up.”

The topic of the Russian tapes appeared again in a second memo dated January 28, 2017, when Comey recounted a dinner he had with Trump in the Green Room at the White House from the night before.

Comey said that Trump “turned to what he called the ‘golden showers thing,’” and repeated that “it was a complete fabrication.” Trump proceeded to detail the day in question and how it would be impossible as he never actually stayed the night in Russia, according to Comey. He said Trump claimed he used the hotel only to wash up and change for the Miss Universe pageant, and later returned to retrieve his things before getting on a plane back to New York.

The former FBI director recalled Trump asking him to investigate the matter to prove that “it was a lie” but Comey warned that doing so might lead the media to believe wrongly that the FBI was investigating the president. “I wouldn’t want to create a narrative that we were investigating him, because we are not and I was worried such a thing would be misconstrued.”

In that same memo, Comey mentioned that Trump spoke about the “serious reservations” he had about then-National Security Advisor Michael Flynn.

Comey said Trump started to talk about an incident involving the redacted name of a leader from the redacted name of a country who called to congratulate him following the inauguration. Trump apparently claimed Flynn failed to inform him of the call.

“In telling the story, the president pointed his fingers at his head and said ‘the guy has serious judgment issues.’”

In another memo dated February 8, 2017, Comey said Priebus asked him during a “meet and greet” event if there was a “FISA [Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act] order on Mike Flynn?” The answer was redacted.

Comey said Priebus asked about information leaks and whether they may have originated from the FBI, to which Comey replied it was “possible but extremely unlikely,” and that “every president is plagued by them.”

In that same memo, Comey said Trump claimed Russian President Vladimir Putin once told him, “'We have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world.'”

In a different memo dated February 14, 2017, Comey talked about Flynn again during a one-on-one meeting with the President.

“He began by saying he wanted to ‘talk about Mike Flynn,’” Comey recalled.

He said Trump went on to explain his reasons for firing Flynn, adding that despite misleading the vice president, “he had other concerns about Flynn.” Comey also wrote that he said he was “eager to find leakers” and “nail one to the door as a message.”

At one point, Comey recalled Trump saying that “Flynn is a good guy” and that he hoped “you can see your way clear to letting this go, to letting Flynn go.” Comey said Trump repeated again that “he is a good guy” and that “I hope you can let this go,” to which Comey simply agreed that “he is a good guy.”

Comey recalled Trump wanting to “go after the reporters” and saying that finding the leakers “may involve putting reporters in jail.”

Fox News' Chad Pergram contributed to this report.The Justice Department on Thursday gave lawmakers redacted versions of five memos kept by former FBI Director James Comey to document meetings with President Trump, a congressional source told Fox News.

The source told Fox News the memos were turned over to the House Judiciary, Oversight and Intelligence Committees following threats from Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., to subpoena Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein for failing to meet the deadline to submit the documents.

In a statement to lawmakers, the Justice Department said it had redacted classified information in the memos, but would provide an unredacted version on Friday.

Goodlatte, House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., had set a Monday deadline for the Justice Department to turn over the Comey memos.

In a joint statement, the committee chairmen said the memos "are significant for both what is in them and what is not.

"Former Director Comey's memos show the President made clear he wanted allegations of collusion, coordination, and conspiracy between his campaign and Russia fully investigated," they said. "The memos also made clear the 'cloud' President Trump wanted lifted was not the Russian interference in the 2016 election cloud, rather it was the salacious, unsubstantiated allegations related to personal conduct leveled in the [Steele] dossier.

"The memos also show former Director Comey never wrote that he felt obstructed or threatened," Goodlatte, Gowdy and Nunes went on. "While former Director Comey went to great lengths to set dining room scenes, discuss height requirements, describe the multiple times he felt complimented, and myriad other extraneous facts, he never once mentioned the most relevant fact of all, which was whether he felt obstructed in his investigation."

In an interview with CNN earlier Thursday, Comey said it was "fine by me" if Congress and the public sees the memos.

"I don't care. I don't have any views on it. I'm totally fine with transparency," Comey said. "I've tried to be transparent throughout this, and I think what folks will see if they get to see the memos is I've been consistent since the very beginning, right after my encounters with President Trump."

The memos were written by Comey in early 2017 and dated Jan. 7, Jan. 28, Feb. 8, Feb. 14, March 30, and April 11. The document cache also included a March 1 email from Comey to his then-chief of staff James Rybicki in which Comey discussed a brief phone call with Trump that did not touch on any aspect of the Russia investigation.

Fox News has reported that Comey penned seven memos to memorialize conversations with Trump, with four of the memos marked classified at the “Secret” or “Confidential” levels, according to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, who viewed the memos with his staff in a Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) at the FBI and the Senate because the FBI deemed the “majority of the memos” to be “classified.”

Comey told CNN that he had written "somewhere between five and ten" memos of his conversations with Trump, before adding that "there may be seven, there may be eight, I don't remember."

The former FBI Director also confirmed that some of the memos were classified "when I created them," but he was not sure how many fit that description.

Grassley, in January, pressed Rosenstein over whether the memo Comey shared with Richman contained classified information.

"According to press reports, Professor Daniel Richman of Columbia Law School stated that Mr. Comey provided him four of the seven memoranda and encouraged him to 'detail [Comey’s] memos to the press,'" Grassley wrote.

"If it’s true that Professor Richman had four of the seven memos, then in light of the fact that four of the seven memos the Committee reviewed are classified, it would appear that at least one memo the former FBI director gave Professor Richman contained classified information," the letter continued.

The release of the memos came in the midst of Comey’s media blitz to promote his new book, “A Higher Loyalty,” which was released this week. Comey has appeared on multiple networks for high-profile interviews and media appearances, where he has discussed the book and slammed former Obama administration colleagues, including former President Barack Obama.

GOP REPS REFER COMEY, MCCABE, CLINTON FOR CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION

Also this week, nearly a dozen House Republicans sent a criminal referral to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, FBI Director Christopher Wray and U.S. Attorney John Huber for Comey, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, Hillary Clinton, former Attorney General Loretta Lynch and other Justice Department officials over their handling of the Clinton email probe and the early stages of the investigation into Russian meddling and potential collusion with Trump campaign associates in the 2016 presidential election.

Comey said he learned of that criminal referral in an appearance on ABC’s “The View” on Wednesday.

“The accusations are not true,” Comey said. “Let’s let the institution do its work.”

Fox News' Samuel Chamberlain and Jake Gibson contributed to this report.A day after the U.S. Senate unanimously agreed to a rule change allowing infants on to the floor of the chamber during votes, new mom Sen. Tammy Duckworth made history by bringing in her 10-day-old baby girl.

Lawmakers and some reporters got a glimpse of newborn Maile Pearl, donning a pink hat and cradled in her beaming mother’s arms, as Duckworth, D-Il., arrived to cast her vote on the nomination of Rep. James Bridenstine for NASA Administrator.

Maile, who was born on April 9, is the first infant to ever appear there.

“It’s about time,” Duckworth, a double amputee, told reporters as she arrived to vote in a wheel chair.

Even though all voted in favor of the rule change, some feared that allowing infants in the chamber would disrupt Senate decorum.

SENATE BABY: DUCKWORTH FIRST SENATOR TO HAVE A BABY WHILE IN OFFICE

Duckworth, an Iraq War veteran, teased the appearance earlier Thursday with a tweet showing a baby outfit.

“I may have to vote today, so Maile’s outfit is prepped,” she said. “I made sure she has a jacket so she doesn’t violate the Senate floor dress code (which requires blazers).”

“I’m not sure what the policy is on duckling onesies, but I think we’re ready,” she quipped.

The idea was for Duckworth to vote only if she was needed to break a tie. Vice President Pence was also present for the same reason. But it was ultimately unnecessary, as Bridenstine was confirmed. The mom and daughter duo was there briefly and Duckworth ultimately voted against the nomination.

When Duckworth turned in her chair to leave, reporters in the press gallery gave a loud "aww" as they got a peak of the baby. The senators on the floor laughed and Schumer called up to the gallery: "The press is finally interested in something worthwhile."

SEN. TAMMY DUCKWORTH PREGNANT, WOULD BE FIRST SITTING SENATOR TO GIVE BIRTH

Duckworth praised lawmakers Wednesday “for helping bring the Senate into the 21st Century by recognizing that sometimes new parents also have responsibilities at work.”

“By ensuring that no Senator will be prevented from performing their constitutional responsibilities simply because they have a young child, the Senate is leading by example & sending the important message that working parents everywhere deserve family-friendly workplace polices,” Duckworth tweeted. “Family-friendly workplace policies aren’t just a women’s issue, they are a common-sense economic issue.”

Duckworth announced in January that she was pregnant with her second child. She is the first sitting senator to give birth while in office and is one of only 10 women in the nation’s history to have a baby while serving in Congress. The other babies were born to mothers serving in the House of Representatives.

Fox News’ Chad Pergram, Robert Gearty and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Democratic lawmakers in Illinois have drawn up a piece of legislation that would give extra cash to schools that reallocate funds toward replacing armed security officers with unarmed social workers and behavior therapists.

The controversial bill, proposed by Rep. Emanuel “Chris” Welch, D-Westchester, would offer grants to schools that use funds meant for school security and instead spend it on mental health services, including hiring social workers or implementing other practices "designed to promote school safety and healthy environments," as The Associated Press reported.

16 other Democrats in the House have backed Welch's plan.

“This increased presence of law enforcement in schools does not necessarily enhance school safety," Michelle Mbekani-Wiley from the Sargent Shriver Center for Poverty Law told The Associated Press. "Instead it dramatically increases the likelihood that students will be unnecessarily swept into the criminal justice system often for mere adolescent or disruptive behavior."

However, supporters of school resource officers say their role is essential to keeping students safe, especially from acts of violence.



The bill came after a string of school shootings prompted many Americans to call for more school resource officers. Many Second Amendment supporters backed proposals to arm certain teachers after training.

According to the National Conference of State Legislators, 200 bills or resolutions have been introduced in 39 states regarding school safety as of early April. More than half of those measures were introduced following the school shooting in Parkland, Florida, which killed 17 people.

In March, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced a school safety plan that would prioritize grants to states that agreed to use the money to hire more law enforcement in schools.

MARYLAND SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICER HAS STARED A GUN IN THE FACE TO SAVE LIVES BEFORE

Last month a school resource officer in Maryland was praised after immediately responding to an alert of an active shooter.

Blaine Gaskill, a St. Mary's County Sheriff's Office deputy with SWAT training who had been positioned at Great Mills High School, immediately responded after being alerted of the shooting and, according to officials, contained the situation within one minute of the initial shot being fired.

Although there is no official count of school resource officers employed in Illinois, the former president of the Illinois School Resource Officers Association Deputy Kip Heinle said he believed the number to be around 500. He called those officers "the best line of defense to keep students safe in school."

Fox News' Nicole Darrah and The Associated Press contributed to this report.President Trump said Thursday that former FBI Director James Comey "threw [fired FBI Deputy Director] Andrew McCabe 'under the bus'" after the Justice Department's inspector general referred McCabe to federal prosecutors.

The president made the comment on Twitter less than three hours after Comey told CNN that he "could well be a witness" in a criminal case against McCabe.

"I like [McCabe] very much as a person, but sometimes even good people do things they shouldn’t do," Comey told "The Lead with Jake Tapper." "I think it is accountability mechanisms working and they should work because it’s not acceptable in the FBI or the Justice Department for people to lack candor. It’s something we take really seriously."

Last week, Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz released a report finding that McCabe misled Comey and federal investigators about his role in leaking information to the Wall Street Journal in October 2016 about the FBI investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

DOJ WATCHDOG SENDS CRIMINAL REFERRAL FOR MCCABE TO FEDERAL PROSECUTOR

Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired McCabe on March 16, less than two days before his scheduled retirement date.

Trump tweeted Thursday that the Horowitz report on McCabe was "a disaster" for him and Comey and suggested the two were "[g]etting a little (lot) of their own medicine." The president has attacked McCabe and Comey repeatedly, before and after their firings from the FBI. Trump fired Comey in May 2017.

The inspector general's report said McCabe authorized FBI officials to share nonpublic information with a reporter and then denied having done so when questioned about it under oath.

McCabe has denied misleading anyone. He said that as FBI deputy director, he had the authority to share information with the media and that he permitted subordinates to do so in this case to correct a false narrative that he had tried to stymie an FBI probe into the Clinton Foundation.

McCabe told the inspector general's office he told Comey after the article was published that he had allowed the officials to share the information and that Comey thought it was a "good" idea to rebut a one-sided narrative. But Comey is quoted in the report as saying McCabe didn't tell him he had approved sharing details of the call and, in fact, had left him with the opposite impression.

"I don't remember exactly how, but I remember some form or fashion and it could have been like 'Can you believe this crap? How does this stuff get out' kind of thing?" Comey was quoted as saying in the report. "But I took from whatever communication we had that he wasn't involved in it."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.It's understandable, perhaps, that much of the press is playing the latest back-and-forth on Russian sanctions as a personal slap at Nikki Haley.

Especially given the fact that she slapped back.

But there are larger questions about the way the Trump administration makes foreign policy—and who speaks for the president.

The White House is certainly capable of bold diplomatic moves—such as the just-disclosed secret meetings between Mike Pompeo, the CIA director and likely secretary of state, and Kim Jong-Un. It's rather startling that this didn't leak—at least until the Washington Post found out about it Tuesday night—and makes the prospect of a Trump-Kim sitdown far more likely.

Yet it's also a reminder that Trump apparently didn't consult his previous secretary of state when announcing his own plan to sit down with Kim. And when Rex Tillerson earlier raised the possibility of diplomatic engagement with North Korea, Trump tweeted that he shouldn't waste his energy on Little Rocket Man.

The Haley episode began as a bit of Sunday-show diplomacy. The U.N. ambassador said on "Face the Nation" that the administration was ready to act against Moscow in the wake of the U.S. airstrikes against Syria over Bashar Assad’s alleged use of chemical weapons against civilians.

"You will see that Russian sanctions will be coming down," Haley said. "Secretary Mnuchin will be announcing those on Monday, if he hasn't already. And they will go directly to any sort of companies that were dealing with equipment related to Assad and chemical weapons used."

But that didn't happen. The president was watching and "grew angry," according to The New York Times. And that led to what the paper yesterday called "a remarkable display of discord that stems not just from competing views of Russia but from larger questions of political ambition, jealousy, resentment and loyalty."

When Trump's new economic adviser, Larry Kudlow, was asked about this, he said Haley "got ahead of the curve. She's done a great job. She’s a very effective ambassador. There might have been some momentary confusion about that."

And that did not sit well with the former South Carolina governor.

"With all due respect, I don't get confused," Haley said in a statement to Fox's Dana Perino.

The Washington Post called this "an extraordinary rebuke of the White House." (Really? Seemed pointed but restrained to me.)

Kudlow, who was obviously trying to smooth things over, told the Times he was "totally wrong" to call her confused: "The policy was changed and she wasn't told about it, so she was in a box." He also called Haley to apologize.

In other words, Haley was following the talking points and no one told her there had been a change on the sanctions, or at least that the decision wasn't final. That was a communications breakdown in the White House. It wasn’t Kudlow's fault, and it wasn't Haley's fault—in fact, she stood up for herself against the boys' club.

"The episode," says Politico, "marks the latest instance of members of Trump's team appearing out of sync with one another or with the president on foreign affairs."

Is there a "deeper strain" between Trump and Haley, as the Times suggests, because she is the administration's most hawkish voice on Russia and he keeps trying to cultivate good relations with Vladimir Putin? It's hard for outsiders to know. Trump did, after all, expel 60 Russian diplomats after that poisoning in Britain. And Haley has emerged as one of the administration's stars—though anyone working for Trump has to be careful not to shine too brightly.

Axios put it this way: "These conflicts with top aides — one of them unfolding in the open — show that, in the end, the president will govern how he wants."

On that point, there is complete consensus.

Footnote: In a similar vein, the Times reported that Jim Mattis urged Trump to get congressional approval before launching the airstrikes against Syria but that the president overruled his Defense secretary. But the Pentagon’s top spokeswoman tells the Washington Examiner that account is "blatantly false."'We're Taking a Stand': Illinois County Declares Itself a Sanctuary for Gun Owners

DiGenova: Under Comey, One Standard of Justice for Clinton & Another for Trump

Mark Levin had a fiery reaction to the revelation that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told President Trump last week that he is not a target in the Michael Cohen investigation.

This came weeks after Trump was told that he was not a target of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia, according to reports.

Levin pointed to two memoranda -- one from the Nixon administration and one from the Clinton administration -- that clearly spell out that a sitting United States president cannot be indicted.

The October 2000 memo from the Clinton Justice Department says:

In 1973, the Department concluded that the indictment or criminal prosecution of a sitting President would impermissibly undermine the capacity of the executive branch to perform its constitutionally assigned functions. We have been asked to summarize and review the analysis provided in support of that conclusion, and to consider whether any subsequent developments in the law lead us today to reconsider and modify or disavow that determination. We believe that the conclusion reached by the Department in 1973 still represents the best interpretation of the Constitution.

"Did they issue another memo over there at the Justice Department reversing these two memos during the NIxon administration and the Clinton administration? No!" Levin said on "Hannity" on Thursday.

He said that despite that, Rosenstein -- the deputy attorney general of the U.S., who's been overseeing Mueller's investigation -- told Trump that he's not a criminal target.

"Dammit, he can't be a criminal target under the memoranda that have been written by the Justice Department!" Levin said.

He added that Justice Department regulations require a special counsel to follow the rules, regulations and policies of the department.

"Mr. President, don't sit down with this special counsel. This special counsel doesn't have the power to indict you, and for good reason," Levin said. "So what are we doing?"

RPT: Trump Bashed at Meeting of Evangelical Leaders, Some Attendees Walked Out

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him''We're Taking a Stand': Illinois County Declares Itself a Sanctuary for Gun Owners

DiGenova: Under Comey, One Standard of Justice for Clinton & Another for Trump

Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton called out James Comey for the fired FBI director's apparent political bias.

"James Comey is an anti-Trump activist. He might as well be running the DNC, given his hatred for President Trump and his deference to Hillary Clinton," Fitton said on "Tucker Carlson Tonight."

He said not only did Comey fail to run a credible investigation into Clinton's mishandling of classified information, he also "illegally leaked" information about his private meetings with Trump.

"Breaking the rules to get a special counsel to target President Trump, that's Mr. Comey's legacy," Fitton said.

He argued that Comey established a "culture of corruption" at the FBI, from fired FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe to the FBI officials who exchanged anti-Trump text messages, Peter Strzok and Lisa Page.

Former FBI Executive Assistant Director Chris Swecker said the FBI is set up to have a filter between investigators and a prosecutive decision, which is intended to keep the FBI out of politics.

He said in this case Comey thrust the FBI directly into politics with a "non-investigation" of Clinton and then a "push-the-envelope" investigation of Trump.

"You can't do that differently just for her," Swecker said. "This is a system that has rules, and he should have followed the rules."

RPT: Trump Bashed at Meeting of Evangelical Leaders, Some Attendees Walked Out

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him''We're Taking a Stand': Illinois County Declares Itself a Sanctuary for Gun Owners

DiGenova: Under Comey, One Standard of Justice for Clinton & Another for Trump

A law professor was heckled and shouted down during a recent speech at the City University of New York (CUNY) School of Law by students who opposed his conservative views.

Josh Blackman, a professor at the South Texas College of Law, was invited last month by CUNY Law’s Federalist Society chapter to give a lecture on “The Importance of Free Speech on Campus.”

As he tried to give his talk, Blackman was repeatedly interrupted by protesters holding signs with slogans like “Rule of Law = White Supremacy” and "Oppressors are not welcome here."

At one point during his lecture, a protester yelled, "F*** the law!"

Blackman responded that it was a "bizarre" thing for a law student to say.

Blackman documented the incident on his blog, writing that conservative speech is often stifled on campus by students who "swarm on anyone who does not toe the progressive line."

"I tried to come on campus to talk about free speech, and I was shouted down," Blackman said on "Tucker Carlson Tonight." "They yelled at me, they screamed at me, they called me a fascist, a white supremacist, a Nazi."

He said he sees a troubling "generational shift," and many young people don't understand the importance of the First Amendment.

"Today's generation thinks free speech is a shield for supremacy, a shield for fascism. And they don't understand why free speech is important," Blackman said. "And that's why I was there. I wanted to engage them in a discussion. And when I tried to engage them, they filed out of the room, they couldn't handle the truth."

He noted that CUNY Law Dean Mary Lu Bilek defended the students after the event and said that they were engaging in a reasonable protest.

"This was not a reasonable protest," Blackman stated.

RPT: Trump Bashed at Meeting of Evangelical Leaders, Some Attendees Walked Out

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him''We're Taking a Stand': Illinois County Declares Itself a Sanctuary for Gun Owners

DiGenova: Under Comey, One Standard of Justice for Clinton & Another for Trump

The parents of an American man who was kidnapped in Syria nearly six years ago joined Martha MacCallum on "The Story" to give an update on their journey to bring their son home.

Austin Tice, a Marine veteran, was captured by unknown assailants in 2012 while he was in Syria as a photojournalist documenting the impact of the Syrian civil war on civilians.

The only sighting of Tice since he disappeared came in a video uploaded to YouTube five weeks later. The 43-second video shows Tice, blindfolded and with his hands bound, being led up a rocky hillside by a group of heavily armed men chanting in Arabic, "God is great." Tice recites a prayer in Arabic, then, in obvious duress, "Oh Jesus, oh Jesus."

The FBI is now offering a $1 million reward for information that leads to his safe return, and Tice's parents have reportedly been told by credible sources that he is alive.

"We want him home. Regardless of what's going on there. Even if it were coming up roses and they were having the opera tonight, we still just want Austin home," Debra Tice said.

Marc Tice said since no group has claimed responsibility or communicated with the family, their number one priority is to raise awareness and do everything they can to find out where their son is being held.

"We're frankly thrilled with the idea of this reward that was recently posted. We're hoping that leads to information that gets him closer to coming home to us," he said.

He added that Georgetown University, his son's alma mater, is hosting an exhibition of his photographs titled "Austin Tice: Children of Syria."

"He's a man with great compassion and was really taken by the plight of ordinary people in Syria in this conflict, and especially of the children there."

RPT: Trump Bashed at Meeting of Evangelical Leaders, Some Attendees Walked Out

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him'Meghan McCain Grills Comey on Tell-All Book: 'J. Edgar Hoover Is Rolling Over in His Grave'

Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told President Trump last week that he is not a target in the Michael Cohen investigation, a source told Fox News.

The source said that the investigation is focused solely on Cohen, Trump's longtime attorney and confidante.

Last week, FBI agents raided Cohen's home, hotel room and offices, reportedly obtaining documents related to Cohen's payment to adult film star Stormy Daniels, who allegedly had an affair with Trump in 2006.

Trump has been told previously that he is not a target of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.

On "Special Report," Fox News senior judicial analyst Judge Andrew Napolitano said Trump may not have been the "target" of the Cohen raid, but he is a "subject" of it.

He explained that the federal prosecutors at the U.S. Attorney's Office of the Southern District of New York justified the raid by citing the crime-fraud exception to the attorney-client privilege rule.

He said that means that prosecutors had evidence that Cohen's client -- in this case Trump -- was engaged in either a crime or a fraud and was talking to his lawyer about it, and that conversation or communication is not protected by attorney-client privilege.

"From that I conclude that Donald Trump may not have been the target of the raid, but he is a subject of it, meaning a human being that the government is investigating to see how much criminal evidence there is, just as he is a subject of Bob Mueller's investigation here in D.C.," Napolitano said.

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office 'Unjustified,' Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him'Meghan McCain Grills Comey on Tell-All Book: 'J. Edgar Hoover Is Rolling Over in His Grave'

Former federal prosecutor Joe diGenova said Wednesday that two standards of justice existed in the United States under James Comey: one for Hillary Clinton and another for President Donald Trump.

DiGenova, a former U.S. attorney for the District of Columbia, said that Clinton's standard of justice was "propounded by the Obama Justice Department and FBI," which was led by Comey when he was the FBI's director.

He said the other standard of justice was for the Trump campaign and administration, including former national security adviser Michael Flynn.

"The president is being framed. Gen. Flynn is being framed. And no matter what Mr. Comey says, the lying that he started has not ended and it continues to this day," diGenova said on "Hannity."

Flynn pleaded guilty to providing false statements to the FBI related to his conversations with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak during the presidential transition.

DiGenova said Comey is "destroying the institution of the FBI" for allowing former deputy director Andrew McCabe to lie multiple times under oath about the FBI's probe of the Clinton Foundation.

"Everyone in that FBI building is embarrassed from head to toe," diGenova said.

Comey defended McCabe's character Wednesday during an appearance on ABC's "The View" to promote his tell-all book, "A Higher Loyalty."

"I still believe Andrew McCabe is a good person, but the inspector general found that he lied, and there are severe consequences in the Justice Department for lying," he said.

Watch more from "Hannity" above.

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office 'Unjustified,' Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him''No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Meghan McCain grilled former FBI director James Comey Wednesday on "The View" over why he chose to write his tell-all book, "A Higher Loyalty."

McCain stated that she thinks Comey published his book for "money and attention," and asked him what he'd say in response to people who agree with her sentiments.

"I'm trying to make choices between bad options and doing it in a way that I think you would want someone as director of the FBI to do it," he said.

"So even if you leave the book still thinking I'm an idiot, you realize I'm actually kind of an honest idiot and I'm not on anybody's side," he added.

James @Comey wants critics who say he is only seeking book sales to "read the book": "Even if you leave the book still thinking I'm an idiot, you actually realize I'm actually kind of an honest idiot." https://t.co/f8u2wc159S pic.twitter.com/9Z3YHIWjx1 — The View (@TheView) April 18, 2018

McCain then went on to say she thinks J. Edgar Hoover -- the FBI's first director -- is "rolling over in his grave" because of the things Comey is saying and revealing, calling his statements "highly political."

"I don't think of it as a tell-all," Comey said of his book. "It's about mistakes I've made, things I'm very much ashamed of [that] I did when I was younger."

Comey added that the book has no classified information and no sensitive investigative information. He says the FBI reviewed his work as well.

Finally, McCain asked Comey about his former deputy, Andrew McCabe, who in a Department of Justice report is said to have lied multiple times under oath about the FBI's probe of the Clinton Foundation.

"I still believe Andrew McCabe is a good person but the inspector general found that he lied and there are severe consequences in the Justice Department for lying," he said.

Bret Baier on Thursday said that Comey is "trying to appeal" in order to sell his book and give his personal opinions, something Baier says Comey didn't do while he was FBI director.

Don't miss Bret Baier's interview with James Comey on Thursday, April 26th at 6:00pm ET on Fox News Channel.

Rep. Jordan: 'Double Standard' With Andrew McCabe 'Drives Americans Crazy'

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office 'Unjustified,' Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him'Prof. Turley: Comey 'Selling Himself With the Vigor of a Kardashian'

Andrew Cuomo Blasts 'Anti-American' Trump Admin, Questions Voters' True Support for Donald

In his Opening Monologue, Sean Hannity said he was "amazed" that "an army of lawyers" hasn't convinced fired FBI Director James Comey to "keep quiet" amid possible legal jeopardy.

Hannity said nearly a dozen House lawmakers sent a criminal referral letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and FBI Director Christopher Wray seeking a criminal investigation into "potentially illegal" actions by Comey, Hillary Clinton, Loretta Lynch and others.

He said that someone should tell Comey "that he has the right to remain silent."

Hannity called Comey a "self-serving, holier-than-thou" FBI director who helped "put the fix in" in the Clinton email investigation.

The referral, Hannity said, reads that Comey's decision "not to seek charges against Clinton's misconduct suggest[s] improper investigative conduct [that was] potentially motivated by a political agenda."

Hannity said he suspects Comey is guilty of violating several sections of the federal code, including "obstruction of proceedings" and "gathering, transmitting or losing defense information."

"All of this spells massive legal trouble for James Comey," Hannity said.

Watch more above.

'This Is A Hoax': Trump Blasts Mueller Probe, Says Podesta's Russia Ties Should Be Investigated

Former Clinton Aide: Comey Lied About Reopening Hillary Email Probe and 'He Knows It'Fox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

RPT: Trump Bashed at Meeting of Evangelical Leaders, Some Attendees Walked Out

Effingham County, Illinois, on Monday became a "sanctuary county" for gun owners.

The county board passed the resolution on an 8-1 vote and directed its employees not to enforce any new state law that would “unconstitutionally restrict the Second Amendment.”

Effingham County State’s Attorney Bryan Kibler said that the action is largely symbolic and will not control decision-making by law enforcement.

On "Fox & Friends First," Effingham County board member David Campbell and Kibler joined Heather Childers to explain the thinking behind the resolution and what it means for the county.

Campbell said they decided to "take a stand" because they've seen an increasing number of state House and Senate bills that attack the Second Amendment.

"[We] decided it's time for someone to take a hard stand," Campbell said, explaining that he modeled the resolution after a similar one that was adopted by Iroquois County, Illinois.

Kibler said the measure may be "mostly symbolic," but they felt it was important to express that many residents in Effingham County are concerned about their Second Amendment rights slowly being stripped away.

"So we thought ... why don't we just make this a sanctuary county like they would for undocumented immigrants. So we did flip the script on it," Kibler said, revealing that they've received an outpouring of support, along with some pushback.

The vote in southern Illinois came after a town near Chicago voted recently to ban assault weapons, such as the AR-15 rifle, along with high-capacity magazines.

Steyn Rips MA After Illegal Immigrant Cabbie Allegedly Rapes Woman, Flees to Ghana

Ingraham: Dems 'More Interested in Growing Voter Rolls' Than Illegal Immigrant Crime Victims'This Is A Hoax': Trump Blasts Mueller Probe, Says Podesta's Russia Ties Should Be Investigated

President Trump was reportedly bashed at an invite-only meeting of evangelical leaders, and some attendees are said to have walked out.

The purpose of the meeting at Wheaton College (Ill.) was to discuss the evangelical movement, but quickly switched to bashing the president, with many concerned that the movement is too closely linked to Trump.

Jenna Browder, host of "Faith Nation" on the Christian Broadcasting Network said Thursday on "Fox & Friends" that some people actually walked out of the meeting when it turned political.

"It was supposed to be a meeting about evangelism and faith. ... They really didn't realize what they were getting into," she explained.

Her co-host, David Brody, added that the two-day meeting started off as "one-sided venting" and some faith leaders left before the second day.

According to the Washington Post, participants said some of the topics of the meeting "included immigration, the role of women in the church, racism, how to disagree civilly with other evangelicals and the need to engage with the growing church in the Global South."

"As the country has become more polarized the church has become more polarized, and that’s because the church is not different enough from America or from modernity. There’s now a red and blue evangelicalism." ~ @timkellernyc at evangelical consultation — Katelyn Beaty (@KatelynBeaty) April 16, 2018

Wheaton College is a prominent evangelical school, located about 25 miles west of Chicago.

The latest Pew Research Center poll shows that Trump's approval rating among evangelicals is still at 78 percent, despite recent reports about his alleged extramarital affairs. Trump won the presidency with 81 percent support among the bloc.

Brody said that evangelicals love that the president "does what he says," like officially recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and working to move the U.S. Embassy there from Tel Aviv.

Former Clinton Aide: Comey Lied About Reopening Hillary Email Probe and 'He Knows It'

Pavlich: Dems Only Want to Prevent Mueller Firing to Preserve Russia 'Talking Point'

Strassel Lists the Many Questions the Mainstream Media Won't Ask ComeyMeghan McCain Grills Comey on Tell-All Book: 'J. Edgar Hoover Is Rolling Over in His Grave'

The co-hosts of "The Five" reacted to New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) slamming the Trump administration and questioning the intensity of the pro-Trump vote.

Speaking at Al Sharpton's "National Action Network" conference on Wednesday, Cuomo said President Trump and his cabinet are "repugnant" and "anti-immigrant, anti-woman, anti-gun-safety, anti-equality, anti-environment, anti-inclusion."

Cuomo also said that Trump and Republicans nationwide did not "win" the 2016 election, but that the Democrats "lost."

"I don't believe anyone ran into the voting booth saying, 'I can't wait to vote for Mr. Trump. Boy I feel good about this!'" Cuomo said.

Jesse Watters said Cuomo is going after Trump because he's afraid of being outflanked by former "Sex & the City" star Cynthia Nixon, who's to Cuomo's left politically.

"He has to go hard left. And he's going to try to be the anti-Trump crusader, because he doesn't want to attack the 'Sex & the City' person, because she's so likable, she's a celebrity outsider, she's female, she's fun, she's interesting, she's new. And it's a better strategy just to go hard against the president," Watters said.

Kimberly Guilfoyle suggested that Cuomo made these remarks with an eye on a future presidential bid, and said he's using "inflammatory rhetoric" to stir up the anti-Trump base.

"I think you're absolutely right," Kennedy agreed. "He's looking past the State House and right to the White House. President Cuomo? What a ring..."

'No Bombshells': Wallace Says Comey's Book Doesn't 'Change the Equation' for Trump

Dershowitz: Raid on Trump Attorney's Office 'Unjustified,' Should Have Been 'Last Resort'

Trump Blasts 'Slimeball' Comey Ahead of 1st Interview: 'Great Honor to Fire Him'Tomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

What will the Democrats' overall message be for the midterm elections?

According to reports, party leaders are split on how to craft a broad agenda that will appeal in blue states and in areas where President Trump was victorious.

Bloomberg reported:

A debate about an attack plan for the November elections pits two party factions that have been competing for dominance. The establishment wing wants to run on safe issues like rising health care costs and opposition to the GOP tax overhaul. The party’s progressive movement sees a rare opening to re-imagine the Democratic agenda with more daring proposals like government-guaranteed jobs, expanding Medicare to all Americans, and reducing the proliferation of guns.

The "Outnumbered" panel took on the question Thursday, with former Trump deputy campaign manager David Bossie and Fox News contributor Tomi Lahren agreeing that the Democrats' message can be mostly summed up in three parts:

1. Impeach President Trump.

2. Raise your taxes.

3. Shield illegal immigrants.

Bossie said the party has not had a real agenda in years that can match Trump's "Make America Great Again" message. Lahren argued that the far-left "resistance" is far more visible than moderates within the party.

"The further they move to the left, the better it's gonna be for [Republicans] in 2020. ... The anti-Trump marches, the pink hats, the anger, the shielding of illegal immigrants. That's what the Democratic Party has become, so then you lose the moderates," she said.

Marie Harf agreed that Democrats need to run more toward the middle, but applauded the party for choosing effective candidates for specific districts, like Gov. Ralph Northam in Virginia and Rep. Conor Lamb in Pennsylvania.

"There are messages that will resonate," she said, forecasting problems in 2020 when the party must pick a presidential nominee that all factions can support.

Watch the debate above and see Tomi's Final Thoughts.

Tomi Lahren on Jay-Z's Trump Criticism: 'The President Is Winning and You Can't Stand It'

Meghan McCain Grills Comey on Tell-All Book: 'J. Edgar Hoover Is Rolling Over in His Grave'

Planned Parenthood to Spend Millions on Midterms: Loesch Says Taxpayers 'Forced' to Finance DemsHannity: Media 'Frauds' Attacking Me 'Nothing More Than Extension of Dem Party'

A retired school nurse who was on the Southwest Airlines flight that experienced an engine explosion in midair recalled her efforts to save the woman who was killed in the horrific ordeal.

Peggy Phillips said on "Fox & Friends" Thursday that she performed CPR on Jennifer Riordan until the plane landed at Philadelphia International Airport on Tuesday.

"That's just what we do," she said of the nursing profession. "It's just part of who were are."

Phillips said she saw "a lot of activity" going on behind her - where Riordan was sitting - and she got out of her seat when she heard calls for someone who knew CPR.

She said before beginning to assist, she didn't know the window in Riordan's row had blown out or how badly she was hurt.

"At that point you don't think about it anymore. You look at it, you assess the scene," she said.

Phillips was a registered school nurse for over 20 years. She said Riordan's injuries were substantial, including severe trauma to her head, neck and torso, and no pulse.

Riordan, a 43-year-old bank executive from New Mexico and a mother of two, sustained fatal injuries when the upper half of her body was sucked out of the plane when the window blew out. Two passengers raced over to pull Riordan back into the Boeing 737, as the pilot heroically guided the plane in for an emergency landing.

Watch more from "Fox & Friends" above.

'Could've Been Catastrophic': Ex-Navy Pilot Gabrielle Explains Southwest Pilot's Heroic Actions

Wells Fargo Exec, Mom of 2 Died in Engine Explosion on Southwest Flight

Fox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary LawChris Wallace will sit down for an exclusive interview with French President Emmanuel Macron this weekend on "Fox News Sunday."

The interview will air Sunday morning on the FOX network (check your local listings for air times) and on Fox News Channel at 2:00pm and 7:00pm ET.

The sit-down will take place at Elysee Palace in Paris and will come ahead of Macron's first official state visit during the Trump administration.

Wallace will question the French leader, who was elected a year ago, on the situation in Syria, France’s relationship with the U.S. and his first year in office.

It will be Macron's first interview on a U.S. Sunday show and his first on Fox News Channel.WATCH: Fox News' Griff Jenkins Confronts Gov. Brown on CA Sanctuary Law

Strassel Lists the Many Questions the Mainstream Media Won't Ask Comey

Law Professor Jonathan Turley recently wrote that fired FBI Director James Comey is "selling himself with the vigor of a Kardashian and the viciousness of a Trump."

Turley expounded on that column in an interview Wednesday with Martha MacCallum.

"Many career people at the Justice Department must really find this [situation] quite repulsive," Turley, of George Washington University in Foggy Bottom, D.C., said.

.@JonathanTurley: “[Comey’s] going to make a lot of money, but in the process, he’s going to do untold harm to the institution he once headed.” #TheStory pic.twitter.com/IhVgPk1bRq — Fox News (@FoxNews) April 18, 2018

He called the notion that a former FBI director would write a "tell-all" book is a "virtual contradiction in terms" of his former tenure.

Turley said people at the FBI "need to have presidents trust them. Comey has really destroyed that."

He said it is "inexcusable" that Comey published a book while he is still a cooperating witness in a federal investigation.

Turley said Comey undoubtedly will make money on the book, but will tarnish both his reputation and that of the FBI in the process.

Former Clinton Aide: Comey Lied About Reopening Hillary Email Probe and 'He Knows It'

Andrew Cuomo Blasts 'Anti-American' Trump Admin, Questions Voters' True Support for DonaldAndrew Cuomo Blasts 'Anti-American' Trump Admin, Questions Voters' True Support for Donald

'This Is A Hoax': Trump Blasts Mueller Probe, Says Podesta's Russia Ties Should Be Investigated

Mark Steyn blasted the state of Massachusetts after an illegal immigrant working as an Uber driver allegedly raped a passenger, was released on bail and fled back to Africa.

As FoxNews.com reported:

An Uber driver charged with raping a passenger earlier this month was able to walk free because officials failed to notify immigration agents about his arrest, authorities said.

Frederick Amfo, 30, an illegal immigrant from Ghana, was arrested after a female passenger said that on April 8 he forced her into the backseat of his car and raped her, police said. Hours after he was released from police custody, he fled to his native Ghana. He was supposed to surrender his passport but did not.

“A loss for words,” Emily Murray, the victim who insisted on being identified by the press, told Boston 25. “I was angry, I’m still angry. I’m confused.”

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement told Boston 25 that a federal immigration detainer should have been placed on Amfo. Weymouth police claimed it forwarded the detainer to Quincy District Court.

“The court chose not to forward the detainer to Norfolk County, allowing for his subsequent release on bail from custody,” the agency said in a statement. “This case highlights the potential dangers of policies that prohibit cooperation with ICE.”President Trump late Thursday tweeted that the newly released memos written by former FBI Director James Comey “show clearly” no collusion with Russia in 2016 and no obstruction into the investigation.

The memos, which were written by Comey about his interaction with Trump, prove that the fired FBI director never felt obstructed, GOP lawmakers said. Many Democrats claim that Trump tried to hold up the FBI’s investigation into alleged collusion leading up to the 2016 election.

“James Comey Memos just out show clearly that there was NO COLLUSION and NO OBSTRUCTION. Also, he leaked classified information. WOW! Will the Witch Hunt continue?” Trump tweeted.

The memos also showed that eight days after he was sworn in as president, Trump told Comey during a one-on-one dinner at the White House that he "needed loyalty and expected loyalty."

Comey wrote that he "did not reply, or even nod or change my facial expression, which [Trump] noted because we came back to it later." At a later point, Comey wrote that Trump told him directly, "I need loyalty."

"I replied that he would always get honesty from me," said Comey. "[Trump] paused and said that's what he wants, 'honest loyalty.' I replied, 'you will get that from me.'"

"It is possible we understood that phrase differently," Comey added as a parenthetical, "but I chose to understand it as consistent with what I had said throughout the conversation: I will serve the President with loyalty to the office, the country, and the truth. I decided it would not be productive to push the subject further."

More than two months later, on March 30, Comey wrote that Trump had called him and pressed the FBI director to make public that the president was not under investigation over contacts between Russian officials and members of his campaign.

"I reminded [Trump] that I had told him we weren't investigating him and that I had told the Congressional leadership the same thing," Comey wrote. "[Trump] said it would be great if that could get out and several times asked me to find a way to get that out."

House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, R-Va.; House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy, R-S.C.; and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, R-Calif., said in a joint statement that Comey's memos "show the President made clear he wanted allegations of collusion, coordination, and conspiracy between his campaign and Russia fully investigated.

"The memos also made clear the 'cloud' President Trump wanted lifted was not the Russian interference in the 2016 election cloud, rather it was the salacious, unsubstantiated allegations related to personal conduct leveled in the dossier" compiled by ex-British spy Christopher Steele, they added.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., disagreed, tweeting that the memos "are further proof of [Trump's] contempt for the rule of law.

"His attempts to intimidate, circumvent the law & undermine integrity of law enforcement investigations demand immediate action to protect the Mueller investigation," she said.

The assurance from Comey that Trump was not being investigated seemed to have weighed on the president's mind as Michael Flynn was fired as national security adviser after misleading Vice President Mike Pence about contacts with the Russian envoy to the U.S.

Trump told Comey during their March 30 conversation that "if there was 'some satellite' (NOTE: I took this to mean some associate of his or his campaign) that did something, it would be good to find that out, but that he hadn't done anything," Comey recalled.

Comey said Trump restated at the end of their conversation that the president "hoped I could find a way to get out that he wasn't being investigated.

"I told him I would see what we could do and that we would do the work well and as quickly as we could," Comey said he responded.

Goodlatte, Gowdy and Nunes noted that Comey "never wrote that he felt obstructed or threatened," adding that while Comey "went to great lengths to set dining room scenes, discuss height requirements, describe the multiple times he felt complimented, and myriad other extraneous facts, he never once mentioned the most relevant fact of all, which was whether he felt obstructed in his investigation."

Trump called Comey again on April 11 to ask "if I did what he had asked last time -- getting out that he personally is not under investigation." Comey says he advised Trump to have White House Counsel Don McGahn call then-Acting Attorney General Dana Boente to request that such a statement be made.

After Trump said he would do so, Comey said the president told him, "I have been very loyal to you, very loyal, we had that thing, you know."

"I did not reply, or ask him what he meant by 'that thing,'" wrote Comey, who added that as Trump ended the call, the president told him he was "doing a great job and wished me well."

During their Jan. 27 dinner in the Green Room, Comey wrote that Trump "thought maybe he should ask me to investigate" salacious allegations "to prove [the dossier] was a lie."

Comey wrote that "it was up to [Trump], but I wouldn't want to create a narrative that we were investigating him, because we are not and I worried such a thing would be misconstrued."

"My sense is that [the president] was focused on the personal piece [of the dossier]," Comey told MSNBC Thursday night. "He would bring it up to me repeatedly."

Fox News' Chad Pergram and Edmund DeMarche contributed to this report.Carrie Underwood spoke in detail about the scary fall that left her with 50 stitches in her face and a broken wrist as the singer's scar is visible for the first time.

The "Cry Pretty" singer told Bobby Bones that she "didn't know how things were going to end up" after that incident in November.

"I was taking the dogs out...and I just tripped," the 35-year-old said on Bones' show on Thursday. "I went to catch myself and I just missed a step."

Underwood said if it weren't for that "one step" she would have been "perfectly fine."

"It was one step that messed everything up."

The fall left the country star with a broken wrist and a huge gash around her upper lip.

Bones asked Underwood where she had her stitches and she said, "Around my mouth."

The scar, which was not visible at Sunday night's ACM Awards when the singer performed, was noticable during her interview with Bones.

Underwood had warned fans after the fall that when they saw her next should would "not quite [look] the same."

But Bones pointed out that Underwood didn't really look any different.

Underwood explained that she's been "very fortunate in the healing process" but that at the time she didn't know how she would end up.

"I was at a point where I didn't know how things were going to end up. I didn't know what was going to go on. I didn't know what it was going to heal like," she told Bones.

Underwood added she was concerned her 3-year-old son, Isaiah, would be scared of her injury.

“I was worried he would be scared of me,” she recalled. “But now if I put makeup on, he's like, ‘Mommy, your boo-boo's all gone.’”

She said she feared she would bump into fans at the supermarket and they would post a photo of her on social media causing people to question "what happened" to her face.

"It was important to me as I started resuming my life again, and going to the grocery store, and taking my kid to school, and stuff like that. I was like, 'OK, somebody's going to creep on me at the grocery store.' And you know people are going to be like, 'What happened?' when they post it on Instagram."Nikolas Cruz, the confessed gunman who fatally shot 17 people in a Parkland, Florida school in February, vomited and hyperventilated after his arrest, according to a police report released Thursday.

Cruz, after carrying out one of the deadliest mass shootings in modern U.S. history at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School on Feb. 14, heaved and vomited clear fluid as a witness identified him, the Miami Herald reported.

PARKLAND SHOOTING HERO BLAMES SHERIFF AND SUPERINTENDENT FOR FAILING TO PREVENT MASSACRE

The 19-year-old "began to hyperventilate," according to a report written by the Coconut Creek officer who detained him, and police reportedly helped him remain standing. Paramedics were called as a precaution.

Cruz was arrested more than hour after opening fire in the freshman building of the school around 2:21 p.m. Minutes later, police say Cruz left the building and blended in with students who were evacuating.

At 2:50 p.m., Cruz bought a drink at a nearby Subway, and 11 minutes later, he walked into a McDonald's, sat down and left, before being taken into custody just after 4 p.m, a timeline from the Broward County Sheriff's Office stated.

Cruz has been charged with 17 counts each of murder and attempted murder.

Fox News' Katherine Lam and The Associated Press contributed to this report.The Justice Department’s internal watchdog has sent a criminal referral for fired FBI official Andrew McCabe to the U.S. attorney’s office in Washington.

The move follows a recent DOJ inspector general report that found McCabe leaked a self-serving story to the press and later lied about it to then-Director James Comey and federal investigators, prompting Attorney General Jeff Sessions to fire him on March 16.

A source confirmed to Fox News that the referral was sent.

The Washington Post reported earlier that the IG referred the finding that McCabe misled investigators "some time ago," asking the top federal prosecutor for D.C. to examine whether he should be charged.

Representatives with the Justice Department, inspector general’s office and U.S. attorney’s office all declined to comment.

Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., backed the move in a tweet Thursday afternoon.

"The criminal referral from the IG is the right decision. It's about time we have some accountability for this type of conduct at the Justice Department," he said.

In an interview with CNN Thursday, Comey said that he had no knowledge of the referral, but confirmed that he could be a witness against McCabe if he is prosecuted.

"Given that the IG’s report reflects interactions that Andy McCabe had with me and other FBI senior executives, I could well be a witness," said Comey.

The former FBI Director added that he liked McCabe "very much as a person, but sometimes even good people do things they shouldn’t do ... I think it is accountability mechanisms working and they should work because it’s not acceptable in the FBI or the Justice Department for people to lack candor. It’s something we take really seriously."

In a statement, McCabe's legal team said they were advised of the referral "within the past few weeks."

"Although we believe the referral is unjustified, the standard for an IG referral is very low. We have already met with staff members from the U.S. Attorney’s Office. We are confident that, unless there is inappropriate pressure from high levels of the Administration, the US Attorney’s Office will conclude that it should decline to prosecute," they said.

While Comey may not have intentionally launched the investigation gunning for McCabe, it was spurred by a desire to find who leaked to The Wall Street Journal in October 2016 about an FBI probe of the Clinton Foundation. The story said a senior Justice Department official expressed displeasure to McCabe that FBI agents were still looking into the Clinton Foundation, and McCabe had defended agents' authority to pursue the issue.

That leak confirmed the existence of the probe into the Clinton Foundation, which Comey, who led the bureau at the time, refused to do.

Inspector General Michael Horowitz’s report said McCabe authorized the leak and then misled investigators about it, leaking in a way that did not fall under the “public interest” exception.

Horowitz found that McCabe lacked “candor” when questioned by FBI agents on multiple occasions, and that he told agents he did not authorize the disclosure and did not know who was responsible.

But McCabe’s legal counsel, Michael Bromwich, has blasted the inspector general report and has criticized Comey. The report said Comey and McCabe gave conflicting accounts about a conversation they had on the leak.

“The OIG should credit Mr. McCabe’s account over Director Comey’s,” Bromwich wrote to Horowitz in a letter, complaining that the report “paints Director Comey as a white knight carefully guarding FBI information, while overlooking that Mr. McCabe’s account is more credible…”

He issued a similar statement Wednesday in response to Comey's interview comments:

"In his comments this week about the McCabe matter, former FBI Director James Comey has relied on the accuracy and the soundness of the Office of the Inspector General's (OIG) conclusions in their report on Mr. McCabe. In fact, the report fails to adequately address the evidence (including sworn testimony) and documents that prove that Mr. McCabe advised Director Comey repeatedly that he was working with the Wall Street Journal on the stories in question prior to publication. Neither Mr. Comey nor the OIG is infallible, and in this case neither of them has it right."

On Thursday night, Comey told MSNBC that McCabe didn't tell him about plans to speak to the press.

“He didn’t tell me about it," Comey said. "He didn’t ask me about it before he did it. And I would’ve expected that. But I think he had the authority to do it. But I think as a matter of rule, he had the authority.”

On Wednesday, nearly a dozen Republican members of Congress sent their own criminal referral to the Justice Department and FBI seeking an investigation of McCabe, along with Comey, ex-Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Hillary Clinton and others.

GOP REPS REFER COMEY, CLINTON, MCCABE FOR CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION

The IG referral, however, could represent a more serious problem for McCabe.

Fox News' Catherine Herridge, Judson Berger, Pamela K. Browne, Samuel Chamberlain, Matt Richardson and Jake Gibson contributed to this report.President Trump said Thursday that former FBI Director James Comey "threw [fired FBI Deputy Director] Andrew McCabe 'under the bus'" after the Justice Department's inspector general referred McCabe to federal prosecutors.

The president made the comment on Twitter less than three hours after Comey told CNN that he "could well be a witness" in a criminal case against McCabe.

"I like [McCabe] very much as a person, but sometimes even good people do things they shouldn’t do," Comey told "The Lead with Jake Tapper." "I think it is accountability mechanisms working and they should work because it’s not acceptable in the FBI or the Justice Department for people to lack candor. It’s something we take really seriously."

Last week, Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz released a report finding that McCabe misled Comey and federal investigators about his role in leaking information to the Wall Street Journal in October 2016 about the FBI investigation into the Clinton Foundation.

DOJ WATCHDOG SENDS CRIMINAL REFERRAL FOR MCCABE TO FEDERAL PROSECUTOR

Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired McCabe on March 16, less than two days before his scheduled retirement date.

Trump tweeted Thursday that the Horowitz report on McCabe was "a disaster" for him and Comey and suggested the two were "[g]etting a little (lot) of their own medicine." The president has attacked McCabe and Comey repeatedly, before and after their firings from the FBI. Trump fired Comey in May 2017.

The inspector general's report said McCabe authorized FBI officials to share nonpublic information with a reporter and then denied having done so when questioned about it under oath.

McCabe has denied misleading anyone. He said that as FBI deputy director, he had the authority to share information with the media and that he permitted subordinates to do so in this case to correct a false narrative that he had tried to stymie an FBI probe into the Clinton Foundation.

McCabe told the inspector general's office he told Comey after the article was published that he had allowed the officials to share the information and that Comey thought it was a "good" idea to rebut a one-sided narrative. But Comey is quoted in the report as saying McCabe didn't tell him he had approved sharing details of the call and, in fact, had left him with the opposite impression.

"I don't remember exactly how, but I remember some form or fashion and it could have been like 'Can you believe this crap? How does this stuff get out' kind of thing?" Comey was quoted as saying in the report. "But I took from whatever communication we had that he wasn't involved in it."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.As fired FBI Director James Comey continues his self-centered, self-abasing book tour, it’s clear that he’s on a path to self-destruction as well – destroying his own reputation.

Hillary Clinton supporters hate Comey more than ever as he digs deeper into the hole he made for himself in the 2016 election.

And President Trump’s supporters are becoming ever more incensed by Comey’s spectacularly unbecoming tirade of petty – and in the perfectly apt words of NBC’s Savannah Guthrie, “catty” – insults directed at the president.

With each passing day of this ill-advised public therapy session, Comey’s narcissistic personality disorder becomes more apparent.

Who cares? Comey is just another pompous bureaucrat with the arrogant impulse to lord it (or should I say, “Lordy it”) over democratically elected officials in a self-appointed role as guardian of the “public interest.” I’ve seen plenty of those.

But there’s something much bigger at stake than Comey’s reputation. It’s the reputation of our most important institutions and foundational principles.

You hear President Trump’s critics complain the whole time that he is “undermining the rule of law” and “subverting democratic norms.”

Everyone is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law, and Comey has not been convicted of anything at this point. But what, exactly, could be more undermining of the rule of law than a senior law enforcement official who may have broken the law, who is publicly glorying in the fact of his own possible lawlessness, and who is using it to enrich himself?

What, exactly, could be more undermining of democratic norms than half the country believing – on the basis of ample circumstantial evidence – that America’s ruling political establishment conspired with the security services and law enforcement at the highest levels to try to prevent an outsider from being elected president? And when that failed, to try to render him illegitimate and ineffective?

There are several charges that could be investigated involving Comey – and others including former CIA Director John Brennan, former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper (who himself may have broken the law by lying to Congress over government spying), and various FBI and Department of Justice officials.

We examined Comey’s potential crimes in our special edition of “The Next Revolution,” titled “The Trial of James Comey” last Sunday.

But what potential charges could Comey could face?

Obstruction of justice over the handling of the Clinton email investigation; lying to Congress over the conclusion of that investigation; theft of government property, in the form of his leaked memos; and abuse of power over the infamous Steele dossier. These are among the crimes that there are strong grounds to argue James Comey committed.

Worse even than that, the more that we learn – from Comey and others – about the conduct of the Obama administration and its senior officials during the late stages of the 2016 presidential election, and in the transition period before President Trump’s inauguration, the more it appears that a truly frightening usurpation of the democratic process might have been attempted.

Any fair-minded person would acknowledge that there is at least as much reason to suspect that the FBI, Department of Justice and others in the federal bureaucracy colluded with the Obama administration and Clinton campaign to influence the 2016 election as there are reasons to suspect that Donald Trump and his associates colluded with the Russians in similar vein.

And yet in this 50-50 swamp of suspicion and confusion – one that is so darkly emblematic of our deeply divided country – 100 percent of the investigative and prosecutorial energy is going in one direction only.

This is not just obviously absurd and unfair. It is: making America’s divisions deeper by the day.

If we want to truly understand what happened in the 2016 presidential election, and if we want to somehow move beyond this viciously polarized and angry political moment, then we have to see equal justice done.

James Comey, John Brennan, James Clapper, Hillary Clinton, President Obama and former Attorney General Loretta Lynch all must be investigated and – if justified by evidence turned up in investigations – prosecuted.

And these investigations must be undertaken with exactly the same intensity that we are seeing applied to President Trump, his presidential campaign, and his associates. Anything less than that will leave America as divided and angry as it is today – for at least a generation if not longer.

For the sake of our democracy, the rule of law and faith in America’s institutions, we need fair treatment for all the potential crimes associated with the 2016 election, not just half of them.Fugitive Minnesota grandmother Lois Riess, aka “Losing Streak Lois,” was arrested Thursday night in Texas, ending a nearly monthlong search for a woman suspected of killing her husband and at least one other person, authorities said.

Authorities found Riess, 56, in a restaurant on South Padre Island in South Texas, near the U.S.-Mexico border, Deputy U.S. Marshal John Kinsey told the Minneapolis Star Tribune.

The U.S. Border Patrol had been put on alert and Mexican authorities also were notified to be on watch for her, the newspaper reported.

'LOSING STREAK LOIS,' ALLEGED KILLER GRANDMA ON THE RUN, SPOTTED ON NEW SURVEILANCE VIDEO

Riess is believed to have killed her husband last month and stolen $11,000 from one of his bank accounts, Minnesota’s Fox 9 reported.

Riess was dubbed “Losing Streak Lois” because of her reported fondness for gambling and frequent attendance at casinos, the report said.

Police later reportedly discovered she was facing nearly $100,500 in debt at the time of her husband's death.

Authorities have also connected Riess to the death of Pamela Hutchinson, 59, in Fort Myers, Fla., last week, as Riess was seen on video surveillance driving her car shortly after, Fox 9 reported.

Billboards were posted in five Southern states this week, as posters by the Marshals Service brought in more than 100 tips, the Star Tribune reported. There was also a $6,000 reward for information leading to Riess' arrest.

WOMAN WHO KILLED HUSBAND, STOLE ANOTHER FEMALE’S IDENTITY SPOTTED ON SURVEILLANCE VIDEO, COPS SAY

On March 23, police found Riess’ husband dead of an apparent gunshot wound at their Blooming Prairie, Minn., home, Fox 9 reported.

U.S. Marshals had elevated her disappearance to “major case” status, putting her among some of the nation’s most dangerous offenders, the newspaper report said.The nationwide manhunt for the granny dubbed “Losing Streak Lois” -- who's wanted in the murder of her husband and a woman she killed to steal her identity -- intensified Wednesday as authorities offered a reward for information about the “coldblooded killer.”

Billboards featuring Lois Reiss, 56, were put up by the U.S. Marshals in Texas, New Mexico, California and Arizona in hopes of receiving tips leading to the grandmother who’s been on the run since allegedly murdering her husband on March 23, the Star Tribune reported. A $5,000 reward is also being offered for information leading investigators to Reiss.

“A grandma lost it, killed her husband and possibly befriended a woman to kill them and steal her identity,” John Kinsey, deputy U.S. marshal in Florida, told the Star Tribune. “We deal with murders all the time, but this one is odd, more so than our usual cases.”

WOMAN WHO KILLED HUSBAND, STOLE ANOTHER FEMALE'S IDENTITY SPOTTED ON SURVEILLANCE VIDEO, COPS SAY

Reiss is accused of shooting and killing David Reiss at their home in Blooming Prairie, Minn. before traveling to Florida and murdering Pamela Hutchinson. Reiss, a gambling addict who frequented casinos, was seen on surveillance video at Fort Myers Beach’s Smokin’ Oyster Brewery befriending Hutchinson on April 5. The new friends seem to hit it off talking at the bar – but Reiss allegedly had an ulterior motive for the chitchat.

Hutchinson was found shot dead last Monday, four days after the two were spotted on surveillance video. Police said Reiss — described as having brown eyes, blonde hair and standing 5 feet 5 inches tall — killed Hutchinson because they look similar.

Reiss took Hutchinson’s car, a white Acura TL with Florida license plate Y37TAA, her cash, identification and credit cards and fled the state.

Kinsey told the Star Tribune Reiss stayed at the Ocala hotel off Interstate 75, but was already “there and gone” by the time authorities arrived. She was last spotted in Refugio, Texas, about 40 miles north of Corpus Christi.

Her trail, however, then went cold. Authorities have not said if Reiss used Hutchinson’s credit cards. Officials have alerted Mexican authorities in case Reiss tries to to the country.

“Unfortunately, there have been no further sightings,” Kinsey said. “She blends in real well. She is an average 56-year-old white female walking around and that is part of the problem.”

Residents who knew Reiss and her husband when they lived in Blooming Prairie said they are in disbelief.

“I mean she’s a grandma,” resident Terry Trom told FOX9. “Hard to believe.”

“She seemed so trustworthy that I even told her where I lived,” Priscila Chavez said of Reiss. “[My daughter] still thinks of this nice lady that was going to buy all my [Girl Scout] cookies.”

Reiss faces murder charges in Florida and Minnesota. She was also charged with grand theft of a motor vehicle, criminal use of personal identification and grand theft after withdrawing $11,000 from her husband’s bank account by forging his signatures on checks, the Star Tribune reported.An Indiana woman dubbed “Grandma Stinker” was arrested Wednesday after police -- tipped off she was getting drugs shipped to her by her son -- found marijuana, methamphetamines and narcotic prescriptions at her home, authorities said.

Debra Ferguson was arrested after an unidentified person called police saying the 58-year-old was receiving regular shipments of marijuana from her son, Eric Anderson, FOX19 reported. The shipments would be addressed to “Grandma Stinker” and would be sent from Anderson’s Yuba County home in California to Ferguson’s Aurora home in Indiana.

Police arrived at Ferguson’s home and soon found a package with about 1.5 pounds of marijuana, officials said.

Investigators, however, found much more than marijuana when they searched further.

"Officers discovered numerous narcotic prescription medications packaged for delivery along with multiple packages of methamphetamine, drug paraphernalia, packaging supplies, cell phones and an undisclosed amount of cash," Aurora Police Chief Josh Daugherty told FOX19.

Ferguson was charged with dealing in methamphetamine, possession of methamphetamine, corrupt business influence, conspiracy to deal marijuana, dealing in marijuana, dealing in a narcotic drug, possession of a narcotic and maintaining common nuisance.

Police issued a warrant for Ferguson’s son on charges of corrupt business influence, conspiracy to deal marijuana and dealing in marijuana.Two sheriff’s deputies were shot and killed Thursday in a restaurant in Trenton, Florida, in what appeared to be an ambush, officials said.

The shooting occured at 3 p.m. at the Ace China restaurant when a man walked passed a window and shot both through the glass, the Alachua County Sheriff's Office said in a statement made on behalf of the Gilchrist County Sheriff's Office.

"As fellow deputies responded to the scene, they found the shooter deceased outside the business," the statement read.

The deceased deputies were identified as Sgt. Noel Ramirez, 30, and Deputy Sheriff Taylor Lindsey, 25. The gunman was John Hubert Highnote, 59.

At this point, there is no clear motive for the shooting and authorities are investigating. Trenton is about two hours southwest of Jacksonville.

Ramirez and Lindsay "were the best of the best," Bobby Schultz, Gilchrist County Sheriff said.

"They don't need to be remembered strictly for their untimely death but they need to be remembered for the type of people that they are," Schultz said. "And that's good individuals, good deputy sheriffs."

He said he knew both men personally and said he "loved them."

The department will grieve and be upset, Schultz said, but the department will "honor these men by doing our jobs. We will honor them by doing what we're supposed to do."

Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi issued a statement saying, “My heart breaks with the tragic news of two Gilchrist County deputies that were senselessly killed today while in the line of duty.”

“The daily risk that law enforcement officers take to protect our communities is overwhelming,” Bondi’s statement continued. “My deepest condolences and prayers are with their families as they mourn the devastating loss of their loved ones. May their families, friends and fellow officers find peace and comfort during this very difficult time.”

The Gilchrist County Sheriff’s Office tweeted it had “suffered a terrible tragedy.” The office said there were no suspects “at large” and asked the public to stay away from the area.

Gov. Rick Scott in a statement said he and his wife "are heartbroken by the loss of the two law enforcement officers in Trenton."

"It is a true evil for anyone to hurt a law enforcement officer, and in Florida, we have zero tolerance for violence, especially against police," he continued. "Tonight, I ask every Floridian to honor these law enforcement officers, their brothers and sisters in uniform and their families. May God bless those who work to keep our communities safe."

President Trump offered his condolences to "the families, friends and colleagues of the two @GCSOFlorida deputies (HEROES) who lost their lives in the line of duty today."

Fox News' Edmund DeMarche contributed to this reportSince the start of 2018, at least 27 law enforcement officers across the U.S. have died while on duty - with 17 of the deaths caused by gunfire.

Roughly 135 cops died in 2016, making it the deadliest year for police officers in at least five years, Fox News has determined. While there were fewer deaths in 2017, the numbers weren’t much better: A total of 129 officers died last year. And 46 of those deaths were caused by gunfire.

Read on for a look at officers who have died in the line of duty so far this year.

Officer Sean Gannon

Officer Sean Gannon with the Yarmouth Police Department in Massachusetts was shot and killed on April 12 while serving a warrant in Barnstable.

While searching the home, Gannon and his K-9 came across a man hiding in a closet, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page. The suspected shooter opened fire and shot Gannon in the head. The officer’s K-9, Nero, was also injured in the incident.

The suspect was later identified as Tom Latanowich, 29, of Somerville, Mass.

Latanowich, who will be charged with murder, had 111 prior adult offenses and was on probation, according to authorities.

Gannon, 32, served with the Yarmouth Police Department for nearly eight years before his death.

Officer Keith Earle

Officer Keith Earle with the Huntsville Police Department in Alabama died on April 9.

The officer succumbed to injuries sustained during an on-duty car accident in March, WHNT19-TV reported. He was on duty at the time of the incident.

“Eula and I are praying for the family of Officer Keith Earl and everyone in the Huntsville Police Department. We offer our deepest condolences as our community mourns his loss and remembers his service,” Huntsville Mayor Tommy Battle said in a statement after Earle’s death.

The 46-year-old had served with the police department for 25 years.

Corporal Dale Hallman

Cpl. Dale Hallman of the Saluda County Sheriff's Office in South Carolina died around 1 a.m. on April 6 in a single-vehicle crash.

Hallman, who served with the sheriff’s office for five years before his death, was seriously injured when his patrol car went off the side of the road and overturned, according to a local news report. Hallman was ejected from the vehicle.

The corporal was taken to a local hospital but did not survive his injuries.

Hallman was responding to a call from local deputies, who were chasing an armed man who was allegedly holding a child hostage. The deputies called for backup from Saluda's Bloodhound Tracking Team, of which Hallman was a part of.

Hallman’s K-9, Copper, was found at the scene and is expected to recover, according to The State.

The 30-year-old is survived by his wife, who is pregnant, and their two children. A GoFundMe has been started for the family.

Deputy Sheriff Ryan Zirkle

Deputy Sheriff Ryan Zirkle of the Marin County Sheriff’s Office in California was killed on March 15 while responding to a 911 hangup call regarding an alleged traffic accident.

Zirkle, 24, lost control of his vehicle, went off-road and struck a tree, ABC 7 reported. His partner later went searching for Zirkle and discovered him at the scene.

Zirkle, who served with the sheriff’s office for over two years, was transported to a local hospital but later died.

He is survived by his fiancée, two brothers and parents.

Officer Scotty Hamilton

Officer Scotty Hamilton of the Pikeville Police Department in Kentucky was fatally shot on March 13 while allegedly investigating a crime.

Hamilton was on duty at the time he was shot and killed. The CBS affiliate WLKY reported that the officer was working with a state trooper to investigate a reported crime in the Hurricane Creek area of Pike County when the shooting occurred.

Authorities say they have someone connected to the shooting in custody, according to 13 WTHR. No further details have been released.

Hamilton served with the police department for more than a decade. He leaves behind a wife and an infant daughter.

Deputy Sheriff David Lee'Sean Manning

Deputy Sheriff David Manning of Edgecombe County Sheriff's Office in North Carolina was involved in a fatal car crash on March 11.

Manning was heading North on Highway 111 when he turned his car around to pursue an intoxicated driver, ABC 11 reported. As he did this, Manning lost control of his patrol car and crashed into an oncoming pickup truck.

A man and his wife who were in the truck were hurt but did not have any life-threatening injuries, authorities said. Manning, on the other hand, died at the scene.

The driver who Manning was pursuing crashed into a nearby ditch, left his vehicle and ran away from scene, authorities said. He was later identified as 33-year-old Richard Howard Walters, who has since been arrested and charged with with possession of marijuana, possession of drug paraphernalia and driving while impaired, according to CBS17.

Three others in connection to Manning’s death were also arrested.

Manning, 24, served with the sheriff's department for four months before he died. He is survived by his fiancée, daughter, parents and siblings.

Officer Greggory Casillas

Pomona, Calif., police Officer Greggory Casillas, 30, was fatally shot March 9 after he and another officer chased a suspect who "barricaded himself in a bedroom" and "began firing through the door" as officers tried to contact him, Capt. Christopher Bergner of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department told reporters. A second officer was injured, authorities said.

The confrontation led to a 15-hour standoff with authorities and ended with the suspect's arrest March 10, Los Angeles County Sheriff Jim McDonnell said.

"For the last 15 hours, we attempted to make an arrest of this individual and just did so successfully minutes ago," McDonnell said during a news conference.

The situation began when Pomona officers received a report of a "person driving recklessly," the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said in a statement. The suspect ultimately led police on a chase before crashing and fleeing on foot. The suspect then "ran into an apartment complex and the officers gave chase," Capt. Christopher Bergner of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said.

Dispatchers received a call of an "officer down," at around 9:10 p.m. local time. Pomona police Chief Mike Olivieri said in a tweet that one officer had died and the other was in stable condition.

"It is with a heavy heart that I must report that one officer did not survive," the tweet said.

Officer Ryan Morton

Clinton, Mo., police Officer Ryan Morton was fatally shot and two other officers were injured as they responded to a 911 call at a home in Missouri.

The alleged shooter, later identified as James Waters, opened fire from inside the house when officers tried to apprehend the individual. The suspect was found dead inside the home.

Since news of Morton's death broke, authorities announced that Morton and the other officers were sent to the wrong house -- about 15 miles away from where they were supposed to be.

"The 911 call that came in was somehow attached to that [Clinton] address," Missouri Highway Patrol Sgt. Bill Lowe said, according to the Kansas City Star.

Lowe said it was a "coincidence" the officers were directed to that address.

"It is tragic that happened. But the fact is they were in the act of committing crimes within that house," Lowe said. "When (the officers) entered that house, they were doing what they needed to ensure no one was hurt and there wasn't any other problems."

Lowe said the loss would greatly impact the "small department."

“It’s a small department. It’s small enough that you know each individual officer and the community knows each individual officer, and it’s hard to put into words when you’re talking about an agency of this size, a community of this size where something tragic like this happened just seven months ago,” he said.

Morton, a 30-year-old Army veteran, was with the Clinton Police Department from February 2015 through January 2017, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reports. He decided to return to the force after fellow officer Gary Michael was fatally shot at a traffic stop in August 2017.

Officer Rodney Smith

New to the Hickman Police Department in Kentucky, Officer Rodney Smith was killed after being swept away by flood waters while on duty.

Smith, 45, reportedly contacted a dispatcher for help after his car was swept away by the floods. A witness saw Smith climb onto the top of his car before it was swept away, KFVS-TV reported.

His body was discovered on March 3.

People in the community remembered Smith as a funny man who made the town a better place, according to WPSD-TV. Smith leaves behind a wife and children.

Deputy Alexis “Thunder” Eagle Locklear

Scotland County Deputy Alexis Eagle Locklear was killed on March 1 when his vehicle crashed. Locklear was assisting another officer who was chasing a suspect.

The 24-year-old, who was nicknamed “Thunder,” was only with the police department since May 16, 2017, according to Sheriff Ralph Kersey.

“Deputy Locklear was loved, honored and respected,” Kersey said in a Facebook post. “He brought great joy and pleasure in our hearts and spirits in our time of having him as a brother in this family we like to call home, here at the Scotland County Sheriff’s Office.”

His patrol car number 143 will be retired, according to WBTW-TV.

Deputy Sheriff Jacob Pickett

Indiana sheriff’s deputy Jacob Pickett was fatally shot March 3 after attempting to apprehend a suspect in a foot chase, police said.

The Boone County deputy was critically wounded while assisting in the chase and later died, Indiana State Police confirmed in a statement.

"Deputy Jacob Pickett made the ultimate sacrifice for his community this morning," Sgt. John Perrine, a public information officer for the Indiana State Police, tweeted. "Rest easy sir."

Pickett, an Indiana native, had been in law enforcement for nearly eight years. He had been working as a K-9 handler, patrolling the streets with his loyal partner "Brick," for the Boone County Sheriff's Office for the past two years.

He's the first person killed in the line of duty from the department since 1935, police said.

"Deputy Jacob Pickett and his family continue to selflessly serve even after his fatal wound by donating his organs," state police said.

Officer Justin Billa

Alabama Police Officer Justin Billa was fatally shot on Feb. 20 as he and other law enforcement officials responded to a woman’s murder.

After finding the slain woman, police identified her ex-husband, Robert Hollie, as a “person of interest.” Billa and other officers with the Mobile Police Department established a perimeter around Hollie’s house and asked him to come out, but he opened fire instead, Mobile Police Chief Lawrence Battiste said.

Billa was shot and later died at a hospital, according to Battiste. Hollie was also killed in the shooting, though it’s unclear if he shot himself or was struck by officers.

Billa, who was named “Officer of the Month” in June 2016, had only been on the force for two years. When he was given the award, his commanding officer praised his attention to detail and professionalism.

“We need to go back to helping people instead of just taking them to jail and creating bigger problems,” Billa told WALA-TV in July 2016. “That’s my idea of good policing, and I feel like that’s what the chief is working towards.”

Billa also said he spent time with his wife before he left for work every day.

"She tells me she loves me every day before I leave for work. And I make sure I do the same," he added.

Aside from his wife, Billa also left behind a young son.

Deputy Sheriff Kevin Stanton

Deputy Sheriff Kevin Stanton of the Brevard County Sheriff's Office in Florida died when a semi-truck crashed into his patrol car.

When Stanton was driving to work around 5:15 a.m. on Feb. 17, a semi-truck lost the treading on its tire. The treading then wrapped around the truck’s axle, causing the driver to lose control of the vehicle, according to Florida Today.

The truck then collided with Stanton’s patrol car.

Stanton, 32, was on duty at the time of the crash. He served with the sheriff’s office for 10 and a half years before his death.

Officer Darren Weathers



Officer Darren Weathers of the Detroit Police Department was killed on Feb. 13 when his car crashed during a training exercise.

Weathers was rushed to a local Michigan hospital, but later succumbed to his injuries.

The 25-year-old officer, whose nickname in the police department was “Lucky,” was a “rising star,” Detroit Police Department Chief James Craig told Fox 2.

"It's no surprise that Lucky quickly became one of the Detroit Police Department's rising stars," Craig said.

Weathers, a military veteran, leaves behind a wife and daughter.

Commander Paul Bauer

Chicago Police Commander Paul Bauer was fatally shot in the stairwell of a downtown building on Feb. 13, law enforcement officials said.

Bauer spotted a man matching the radio description of an armed suspect and “engaged in an armed physical confrontation,” according to Superintendent Eddie Johnson. Officers had been chasing the suspect on foot.

Bauer, 53, had been on the police force for 31 years. He was attending a training at the Chicago Fire Department with other officials prior to the shooting.

Mayor Rahm Emanuel called Bauer's death "a tragic reminder of the dangerous duty the men and women of our police department accept to ensure the safety of us all."

Police captured the suspect shortly after the shooting, and a gun was recovered at the scene, Johnson said.

Officers Anthony Morelli and Eric Joering

Anthony Morelli, 54, and Eric Joering, 39, were shot Feb. 10.

Both men were officers with the Westerville Division of Police in Ohio, and had been “responding to a domestic 911 hang-up call,” Westerville Police Chief Joe Morbitzer said.

“Once on the scene, they made contact with the suspect and exchanged gunfire almost immediately,” he said.

Joering died at the scene while Morelli died at a hospital, according to Morbitzer.

Quentin Smith, 30, was named as the suspect in the case.

Officer Chase Maddox

Officer Chase Maddox, 26, of the Locust Grove Police Department in Georgia was shot and killed Feb. 9 in an incident which also left two deputies wounded.

The deputies were at a Locust Grove address to serve an arrest warrant for 39-year-old Tierre Guthrie, who was wanted for failing to appear in court for traffic violations, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation (GBI) has said.

“Guthrie became combative and escalated the situation,” the agency said. “LGPD Officer Chase Maddox arrived on scene to assist the deputies. A fight ensued resulting in Guthrie and the officers firing their weapons.”

Guthrie died. An autopsy indicated Guthrie was shot four times, including twice in the chest, the GBI said.

The agency said Maddox was shot three times, "with the fatal wound being to the head."

Maddox, who served with the police department for five years, left behind a young child and his wife, who is pregnant.

Officer David Sherrard

Officer David Sherrard, a 13-year veteran of the Richardson Police Department in Texas, was fatally shot on Feb. 7 while responding to a disturbance call.

Sherrard, 37, was also a member of the police department’s SWAT team, the Richardson Police Department said in a Facebook post announcing the officer’s death.

“He exemplified the professionalism, heroism, and strong character inherent in all Richardson police officers,” the police department said.

The suspect was taken into custody after an hours-long standoff.

Police said a second person, identified as 30-year-old Rene Gamez, who lived at the apartment where the suspect barricaded himself before surrendering, also died in the shooting.

Deputy Sheriff Micah Flick

While investigating a car theft, Deputy Sheriff Micah Flick of the El Paso County Sheriff’s Office in Colorado was shot and killed on Feb. 5.

A suspect allegedly opened fire on Flick, 34, and three other law enforcement officers in Colorado Springs as they attempted to take the suspect into custody. Along with the officers, a bystander was also shot, police said.

The suspect died at the scene from return fire.

Flick, who served with the sheriff’s department for 11 years, was married with 7-year-old twins.

Police Officer Glenn Doss, Jr.

Police Officer Glenn Doss Jr, 25, was shot in the head and chest while responding to a domestic violence call on Jan. 24.

When Doss and other officers arrived, a man, identified as 43-year-old Decharlos Brooks, allegedly opened fire on police officers while they were still in their patrol car. Doss was shot in the incident.

Brooks was taken into custody and charged with eight counts of assault with intent to murder, seven counts of resisting and obstructing, one count of carrying a dangerous weapon and 17 counts of felony firearms.

Doss, who was taken to a nearby Detroit hospital after he was shot, succumbed to his injuries on Jan. 28.

He worked for the Detroit Police Department for two years and is survived by Emily Crouse, his girlfriend of nine years, their 9-month-old son, Eli, and his parents.

Deputy Heath Gumm

Deputy Heath Gumm of the Adams County Sheriff’s Office in Colorado was shot and killed while responding to a disturbance call on Jan. 24.

Gumm, who served with the sheriff’s office for five years, was shot in the chest by the suspect he had been chasing on foot. The suspect now faces murder charges.

The 32-year-old is survived by his wife and other family members.

Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher David Hill

Deputy U.S. Marshal Christopher David Hill, a husband, father of two children and a U.S Army veteran, served with the United States Marshals Service for 11 years before he was shot and killed in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

Hill, along with Middle Pennsylvania Fugitive Task Force members, was attempting to arrest a woman at a home on Jan. 18 for reportedly making terror threats.

At the same time, a man inside the home opened fire on the task force. Hill was shot, as were two other task force officers, one of whom still was able to shoot and kill the gunman.

Hill was taken to a local hospital but later died from his wounds. He was 45.

Detective Michael R. Doty

Detective Michael Doty of the York County Sheriff’s Office in South Carolina was fatally shot on Jan. 16 while searching for a man who allegedly attacked his wife and then ran into a wooded area nearby.

Christian Thomas McCall, 47, allegedly shot Doty in an “ambush” attack. The detective was later taken to a hospital in North Carolina but died the next day.

Three deputies and one K-9 officer also were injured at the time.

Doty, 37, was a 12-year veteran of the sheriff’s office.

Deputy Sheriff Daniel A. McCartney

Deputy Sheriff Daniel A. McCartney, a Navy veteran, husband and a father to three sons, was fatally wounded while responding to a burglary on Jan. 7.

McCartney, 34, who worked for the Pierce County Sheriff’s Office in Washington State, was the first officer on the scene.

McCartney was shot while chasing after the suspect on foot. The sheriff later died in the early hours of Jan. 8 at a nearby hospital.

One suspect was found dead at the scene and a second suspect was arrested the next day. A third suspect, who was in a getaway vehicle, also was charged.

McCartney served with the Pierce County Sheriff’s Office for three years.

Officer Chris Beaudion

Officer Chris Beaudion, 26, served in the Monroe Police Department in Louisiana. He suffered fatal injuries when his patrol car struck a tree on Jan. 7 around 3 a.m.

Shortly after his death, the News Star reported that Beaudion, who was on duty at the time of the accident, veered left and crossed two lanes of traffic before hitting the tree. He was later pronounced dead at the scene.

The officer, who is survived by his wife, two children and parents, was with the police department for 17 months before the crash, according to the Officer Down Memorial Page.

Lieutenant Christopher Robateau

Lieutenant Christopher Robateau of the New Jersey Police Department was killed on Jan. 5.

The 49-year-old, who was with the police department for 23 years, was struck by a vehicle while responding to an accident on the New Jersey Turnpike.

Robateau was married with three children.

Fox News’ Kaitlyn Schallhorn, Nicole Darrah, Katherine Lam and The Associated Press contributed to this report.A 3-year-old girl in Indiana accidently shot her pregnant mother, local authorities said.

According to the Merrillville Police Department, the 3-year-old and her 1-year-old brother were sitting in the backseat of a car outside of a Plato's Closet, a second hand clothing store, as their father, later identified as Menzo Brazier, went into the store to shop. Their mother, Shanique Thomas, who is 7-weeks pregnant, stayed with the children and was sitting in the driver's seat.

Before going into the store, Brazier left his loaded 9mm semi-automatic handgun between the front passenger seat and the center console, according to police.

Shortly after, the 3-year-old grabbed the gun and it went off. Thomas told police that she heard “a loud pop like a balloon” and then realized that “a large amount of blood was coming out of her,” according to a statement from Merrillville Police Department reviewed by Fox News.

The bullet traveled through the back of the driver’s seat, through the mother's right shoulder and then out through the front window, according to police.

"We just heard screaming," Plato's Closet employee Hadassah Zirkle said, according to ABC 7. "We ran outside with a bunch of other people. Someone said someone was hurt and bleeding."

"The first thought was to get the kids out of there," Rebecca Todd, an employee at the store, said. "We grabbed them. We brought them inside, and we just tried comforting them as best we could."

Thomas, who told authorities that she was unaware that Menzo had the gun with him, was transported to a local hospital and underwent surgery. She suffered nerve damage as a result of the incident, according to the statement.

Menzo, who police found “holding a blood soaked towel against Shanique’s chest,” according to an affidavit also reviewed by Fox News, was later charged with two counts of criminal recklessness and two counts of neglect of a dependent.MS-13 has directed its members to “take out a cop” on Long Island — prompting the NYPD to put its officers on high alert, according to a new memo obtained by The Post.

Police are hunting for the suspect, a tall, light-skinned Hispanic man with a thin build and a tattoo of three dots next to his eye.

Police in Hempstead, New York — one of the Long Island towns where the violent gang has a stronghold — were tipped off to the threat Wednesday by a “credible” informant, the NYPD memo said.

The member of the Salvadoran gang told the informant they needed to make a “statement” and specifically wanted to kill a cop in the Hempstead area.

“The police have been making too many arrests and it’s time to take the streets back and take out (shoot) a cop like we do in El Salvador,” the suspect said, according to the informant.

Click for more from The New York Post.Magician David Copperfield has been forced to reveal the secret of one of his signature tricks after being sued by an injured British audience member.

Gavin Cox claims he suffered lasting brain and body injuries after agreeing to take part in the "Lucky #13" illusion in 2013.

Mr Cox, who had previously cooked for the Royal Family, has not worked since he fell over while being led through a secret passageway at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas.

The 57-year-old and 12 other volunteers were taking part in an illusion in which they appeared to vanish on stage, before re-emerging later at the back of the theatre.

Mr Cox claims he was injured when he was "hurried with no guidance or instruction through a dark area under construction, with cement dust and debris causing him to slip and fall".

The audience member was taken to hospital with a dislocated shoulder but claims he suffered chronic pain, headaches and confusion when he returned to the U.K.

Mr Cox, who was diagnosed with a traumatic brain injury and needed two fusion surgeries on his neck and shoulder, claims he has paid out more than $400,000 in medical expenses.

He is seeking unspecified damages in the lawsuit, which also names the MGM Grand, show producer Backstage Employment and Referral, and building firm Construction Management.

Judge Mark Denton said some parts of the magician's testimony might still be conducted behind closed doors.

Mr Copperfield's lawyers lost pretrial bids at Clark Country District Court, Nevada, to avoid the secret of the trick being revealed to the public.

Click to read more from Sky News.Jurors weighing the fate of Bill Cosby were allowed to hear graphic testimony from a 2005 deposition in which the comedian described a sexual encounter with accuser Andrea Constand in detail.

Prosecutors won the right to introduce the deposition, which Cosby gave in connection with a civil suit filed by Constand, at the sexual assault retrial on charges he drugged and molested her at his suburban Philadelphia home in 2004.

The ruling by Judge Steven T. O'Neill gave the prosecution a key victory in its effort to portray Cosby as a serial sexual predator.

In the deposition, Cosby described his attempt to obtain consent from Constand during a previous encounter.

"I'm giving Andrea time to say 'yes' or 'no' about an area that is right there in the question zone," Cosby testified.

He said he rubbed the skin above her trousers and "without talking I'm asking can I go farther."

"I don't hear her say anything. And I don't feel her say anything," Cosby said. "And so I continue and I go into the area that is somewhere between permission and rejection. I am not stopped."

Constand has testified that she rejected Cosby's previous advances.

The deposition was also included at Cosby's first trial, which ended with a hung jury last year.

Prosecutors used another of Cosby's statements — given to police in 2005 — to show how he described the encounter for which he is facing aggravated indecent assault charges. These could send him to prison for years.

Cosby said he gave Constand one and a half tablets of the cold and allergy medicine Benadryl to help her relax, then fondled her breasts and genitals, according to the transcript, which was read to the jury on Tuesday morning.

Cosby said Constand never told him to stop.

"We are petting. I enjoyed it," the TV star said, according to the transcript. "And then I stopped and I went up to bed. We stopped and then we talked."

Constand says Cosby knocked her out with the pills and then sexually assaulted her, penetrating her with his fingers and guiding her hand to his penis. Cosby told police he didn't remember whether Constand touched his genitals.

The jury was expected to hear later about Cosby's acknowledged use of Quaaludes, a popular party drug in the 1970s that was banned in the U.S. in 1982, to help get women to have sex with him.

Cosby said in his deposition that he had obtained several prescriptions for quaaludes from his doctor in Los Angeles in the 1970s, ostensibly for a sore back. The long-married comedian said he never took the drug, instead giving it to women he wanted to have sex with "the same as a person would say, 'Have a drink.'"

"Quaaludes happen to be the drug that kids, young people, were using to party with, and there were times when I wanted to have them just in case," Cosby testified.

The comic ultimately settled Constand's lawsuit for nearly $3.4 million.

Cosby's lawyers argued the testimony is irrelevant to his retrial because there is no evidence he gave Constand the drug. Prosecutors have suggested otherwise.

The unsealing of the deposition, at the request of The Associated Press, led prosecutors to reopen Cosby's criminal case in 2015.

A police sergeant who investigated Constand's allegation a decade earlier testified Tuesday that the probe was abruptly shut down before police had finished their work.

Cheltenham Township Police Sgt. Richard Schaffer told jurors that then-District Attorney Bruce Castor announced he was closing the probe hours after investigators met to discuss leads that needed to be followed up — and just four weeks after Constand went to police. Castor has said the evidence showed both parties "could be held in less than a flattering light."

On Monday, Constand rejected defense allegations that she concocted her story to score a big payday, and her mother testified that Cosby apologized in a phone call and called himself a "sick man."

Andrea and Gianna Constand's testimony followed that of five additional accusers who told jurors that Cosby drugged and assaulted them two decades earlier.

As Cosby arrived at the courthouse Tuesday, his spokeswoman, Ebonee Benson, told reporters that Constand's testimony "seemed to be more colorful and more embellished" than at the first trial.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A body positive Instagram photo posted by Kim Kardashian was flooded with negative comments this week after users zoomed in on the reality star's toenails. Critics called the social media mogul's toes "gross" and questioned why one of her toenails was "yellow."

Kardashian posted a picture of her toned body in a two-piece swimsuit, thanking celebrity trainer Melissa Alcantara for getting her in shape and changing her lifestyle for the better.

"When I wasn’t happy with what I saw back in the mirror I spent a whole year training so hard 5 or 6 days a week putting in a lot of work and changed the way that I eat and there’s such a noticeable difference," Kardashian captioned the Instagram photo taken on a beach in Turks and Caicos, garnering more than 2 million likes.

The reality star continued, "I am firm and less cellulite and so much more confident. SO THANK YOU for waking up at 5am to do crazy body building workouts & sprints that I hate & putting me on to this lifestyle."

But it didn't take long for the trolls to attack the star's appearance – this time, for a bizarre reason: her feet.

"Zoom in on her foot and look at her toenail," one Instagram user instructed the crowd.

"I just came to see the pinky toe," another added.

A Twitter user then shared a close-up of Kardashian's pinky toenail online, recieving dozens of retweets and replies.

"This toe damn near gave me a HEART ATTACK," a Twitter user commented.

"SAME, IM LIKE "im sorry, is that yellowwww???" another replied.

Fans of the "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" star quickly came to her defense, scolding anyone who chooses to body-shame.

"You people are so sad body shaming is not acceptable in any shape or form. Before you comment look at yourself, you are all a disgrace!" one Instagram user exclaimed.

"Just ignore these people that is body shaming you! You are still a beautiful mother and you've got the best body, people are jealous," another added.

After days of speculation, Kardashian clapped back at the haters, posting a clear picture of her feet in the sand, showcasing her colorful pedicure without saying a single word.Comedian Jay Mohr is an advocate of free speech, but even he was pushed too far by the words of a university professor in California after her insensitive words about the late Barbara Bush sparked outrage. Now, the comedian is calling for her to be fired.

As previously reported, Randa Jarrar, an author and professor in the English department at California State University, Fresno, took to Twitter to share her less-than-respectful thoughts about the death of the former First Lady.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F*** outta here with your nice words,” the professor tweeted, among a slew of other insults, which included wishing the same fate on the rest of the Bush family.

Mohr sent a tweet to Joseph Castro, president of the Fresno State campus, calling for Jarrar’s termination.

“COWARD,” he wrote. “I’m a comedian, huge free speech advocate. Randa Jarrar should be fired 4 her sheer arrogance. A garbage person that cannot possibly be shielded through your terrible+weak PC statement today. Protecting her hate isn’t why you make 300k a year.”

So far, the comedian’s tweet has received no response from Castro. It’s unclear at this time if action will be taken against the professor, or if it’s legal for the university to do so based on a tweet.Harvard Law professor Alan Dershowitz applauded former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani joining President Donald Trump’s personal legal team.

Continue Reading Below

“I think it was probably a very wise decision for the president to bring Giuliani on board,” Dershowitz told FOX Business’ Kennedy Thursday. “He knows all the tricks. He knows all the tactics.”

Trump lawyer Jay Sekulow announced the appointment of Giuliani in a statement Thursday and quoted the President as saying, "Rudy is great," Sekulow quoted Trump as saying. "He has been my friend for a long time and wants to get this matter quickly resolved for the good of the country."

Giuliani was a former United States attorney for the Southern District of New York for much of the 1980s, prosecuting some of Wall Street’s most high-profile cases.

“[Giuliani] is one of the most effective and successful prosecutors in the history of the Southern District,” Dershowitz said.

U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has been in hot water with the President and some critics suggest it won’t be long before he resigns.

Advertisement

“Sessions really pulled the wool over the president’s eyes,” Dershowitz said. “He should have told him before he accepted the job, ‘Look, I am going to accept the job and I am going to recuse myself from the most important investigation,’” Dershowitz said.

But, could Guiliani become the natural successor as Attorney General if he is successful against special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia probe?

“I am not sure he wants the job,” Dershowitz said. “I think he might have been able to have it if he wanted it earlier.”

The Harvard Law professor battled Giuliani in the legal arena several times throughout their careers.

“We always disagreed, he is a Yankee fan, I am a Red Sox fan, but we are friends,” he said.A homeless man dressed only in American flag shorts was arrested Thursday after allegedly stealing a truck full of beer and leading police on a highway chase, authorities in Northern California say.

Police later identified the suspect as Matt Hermsmeyer, 46. He was charged with suspicion of vehicle theft, possession of stolen property, priors for auto theft, resisting arrest and violation of his probation.

A Coors truck driver was making a delivery at a Santa Rosa liquor store when a customer entered the store and told the driver that a man had climbed into his parked truck and driven away, a police report said.

The customer described the suspect as an apparent homeless man dressed only in red, white and blue shorts.

A GPS system inside the truck gave police the suspect's location “within minutes,” according to the report.

Santa Rosa police officers, including a K-9 officer and his partner, and a Henry-1 helicopter unit from the Sonoma County Sheriff’s Department were dispatched to the scene where witnesses reported seeing the suspect on foot after having apparently abandoned the truck.

Video captured by Fox 2 in the San Francisco Bay Area showed the suspect running across Highway 101 in Santa Rosa, jumping the divider and fleeing into brush along the road, his star-spangled shorts still waving.

The suspect was caught within an hour of the truck’s theft as he hid in the bushes, the report said.A registered nurse in Illinois is accused of using the dark web to hire a hitman to kill her lover’s wife, officials said.

Tina E. Jones, 31, of Des Plaines, appeared in court Wednesday on solicitation of murder charges for an alleged attempt to kill her romantic rival, the Chicago Tribune reported.

Authorities said they were contacted by the CBS television program “48 Hours” with information about a woman who was the alleged target in a murder-for-hire plot.

The show reportedly was researching online companies that offer hitman services.

Jones allegedly was involved with a married colleague, news station WLS-TV reported.

An investigation revealed that the Loyola Medical Center nurse allegedly paid more than $10,000 in bitcoin to have the colleague’s spouse murdered after she felt spurned in the relationship.

She allegedly contacted a site on the dark web in January with specific instructions to kill his wife and make it look like an accident, according to officials.

Click for more from The New York Post.Emails reviewed by Fox News from February 2016 suggest the FBI and DOJ worked together to craft a response to a key development in the Hillary Clinton email investigation, amid newly raised Republican concerns about a “concerning level of coordination” between the two agencies during the probe.

The emails concern the period after 22 messages with "Top Secret" information were found on the former secretary of state's personal email server.

Republican Rep. Mark Meadows cited them in a letter earlier this week claiming former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony to Congress – in which he downplayed FBI-DOJ coordination on the Clinton case – may be at odds with documents suggesting “frequent” coordination.

Comey specifically said in public testimony that he did not coordinate with the DOJ for his July 2016 public recommendation not to pursue charges against Clinton. Meadows, however, pointed to a series of messages he claims indicate potential coordination at several “crucial moments of the investigation” – including the July statement and the period in February. While the FBI is part of the Justice Department and communication between the two agencies is inevitable, Meadows’ letter also suggests some at the FBI were concerned about the perception it was not acting independently in a politically explosive case.

The February messages reviewed by Fox News start on Feb. 8, 2016, when Gregory Starr, then the assistant secretary of state for diplomatic security, told FBI Head of Counterintelligence Bill Priestap that the State Department was prepared to punish those responsible for the misplaced messages.

"The Department of State is prepared to take appropriate administrative action for any instances of mishandling of classified information in accordance with our own internal processes," Starr wrote.

However, the official added that the department did not want to hinder the ongoing FBI investigation and, if instructed, would postpone the "administrative action" over the emails until after the bureau's case had concluded.

Five days later, on Feb. 13, an unidentified senior Justice Department official wrote to FBI agent Peter Strzok, Jonathan Moffa of the FBI’s criminal division and the bureau's Office of General Counsel, as well as members of the U.S. Attorney’s office for the Eastern District of Virginia.

"Wanted to make sure that DOJ is kept in the loop as response is drafted," wrote the unnamed official in the Justice Department's National Security Division. "We have discussed a bit more here at CES and have some additional thoughts on the best response on the admin action question. Can we make sure we discuss as a group as response is put together?"

"CES" appears to refer to the Justice Department's "counterintelligence and export control section." That section was led by David Laufman, who left the department this past February citing personal reasons.

The State Department took no immediate administrative action over the 22 "Top Secret" emails on Clinton's email server. Many of those involved in the matter had left the department by the time the FBI investigation closed in July 2016.

Meadows has gotten support for his inquiry from House Oversight Committee chairman Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C.

On Wednesday, Gowdy asked Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, FBI Director Christopher Wray and Justice Department Inspector General Michael Horowitz to review allegations of coordination between the FBI and the Justice Department in the Clinton investigation.

FBI spokesman Andrew Ames told Fox News the bureau had no comment on the newly uncovered emails and added that the FBI would respond to Gowdy "as appropriate."

The Justice Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Fox News' Samuel Chamberlain contributed to this report.New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, a New York City native, raised eyebrows last week after he claimed that he was an illegal immigrant and taunted officials to deport him.

“I’m undocumented. You want to deport an undocumented person, start with me because I’m an undocumented person,” Cuomo, 60, said during a bill signing.

During the bizarre speech, the New York governor criticized the "extreme conservative movement" for being "anti-immigrant." He said his family, who emigrated to the U.S. from Italy, was constantly ridiculed with a racial slur that he said meant “without papers.”

“I’m an Italian-American. I came from poor Italian-Americans who came here. You know what they called Italian-Americans back in the day? They called them wops,” Cuomo said, referring to the pejorative slur for Italians. “You know what wop stood for? Without papers.”

“I’m undocumented. You want to deport an undocumented person, start with me because I’m an undocumented person." - Andrew Cuomo

According to the Online Etymology dictionary, the slur originated from southern Italian dialect “guappo,” which means “dandy, dude, stud.” The dictionary said it’s not an acronym.

A day earlier, Cuomo addressed a group of union workers and said he was “raised by poor immigrants from South Jamaica,” a neighborhood in Queens, New York. His father Mario, a three-term governor of New York, was born in Queens to Italian immigrant parents. His mother, Matilda, was also born in Queens.

Immigrant advocacy group Make the Road Action has called on Cuomo to apologize for the comments.

“To Dreamer and immigrants like me, these fabrications are offensive,” Make the Road Action member Antonio Alarcon said in a statement, adding that the governor “has no idea what it’s like to live as an undocumented person.”

“For those of us who came to this country with our parents to find a better life, and have struggled daily to get by and faced the threat of being torn from our family, it’s unbelievable that the governor would try to claim to have shared our experience,” he said.

Cuomo received condemnation for his false comments on social media, as well, including from Dictionary.com which tweeted the definition of the word "undocumented" along with the hashtag #Cuomo.

Cuomo is facing a primary opponent this year in Cynthia Nixon, an actress and activist. He's currently ahead of Nixon by a significant amount, but the lead has dwindled over recent weeks.

Cuomo's office did not respond to a request for comment from Fox News Thursday afternoon.A New Jersey state trooper was indicted on Thursday after he allegedly completed “improper stops” on two women and tried to convince them to give him their phone numbers, officials said.

Eric Richardson, 32, of Camden, was charged with official misconduct, criminal coercion, tampering with public records or information, falsifying or tampering with records, wrongful access/disclosure of information and obtaining information from a motor vehicle record, a news release from the state’s attorney general’s office said.

A probe into Richardson was started after the reported incidents with the two women were discovered, the office said. “He allegedly stopped each woman repeatedly and deactivated the dashboard camera in his car during some of the stops,” the news release said.

One woman was allegedly pulled over three separate times, the last of which he reportedly completed to determine if her phone number was the same and if she was getting his messages, the news release said. In an official report on the incident, he allegedly falsely claimed that he’d “stopped to aid a motorist.”

When he pulled over the second woman, he reportedly "threatened to arrest her if she did not give him her phone number," and showed his handcuffs.

“The woman’s license and registration were suspended, and there was a warrant for her arrest,” the news release said. “After obtaining her phone number, Richardson released her, despite the active warrant.” He later reportedly claimed to dispatchers and in the dispatch log that the driver involved was actually male, not female. He reportedly also texted the woman to the acquired phone number.

Richardson was charged with wrongful access/disclosure of information and obtaining information from a motor vehicle record because of a separate occasion when he allegedly went into the FBI–Criminal Justice Information Services database without legal authority to do so, the news release said. He reportedly did this to find out whether or not a woman who his male friend had hired had any warrants or drug activity listed in her driving record.

“We allege that the defendant used his authority as a police officer to harass two women and he then falsified official records to cover up his misconduct,” Director Elie Honig of the Division of Criminal Justice said in the news release. “These are serious charges.”

New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir S. Grewal said “when officers abuse their authority, as alleged in this case, they must be held accountable.”

Richardson is currently suspended from duty and has been since being charged in May 2017, the news release said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A mentally ill man who was welcomed into a Minnesota family’s home beat a mother and her son to death with a pipe wrench — and then told police he did so because they were “weird,” authorities said.

William Lynn Hillman, 21, was charged Thursday in Otter Tail County District Court with two counts of second-degree murder in the deaths of Denise McFadzen, 42, and her 21-year-old son Dalton McFadzen, the Star Tribune reports.

Both victims were found at about 5 a.m. Tuesday at a home in Gorman Township, roughly 100 miles away from Cass County, where Hillman had been ruled mentally ill in 2016 after punching his mother and threatening to kill her, court records show.

The body of Denise McFadzen was found just outside the home; her son’s body was found in a bed inside the residence. Both had been beaten in the head with a large pipe wrench, which was later found covered in blood and “other matter,” according to a criminal complaint.

Hillman then called police from a nearby home and told officers he did a “bad thing” and needed to be apprehended. He later apologized for the killings during questioning by police, according to the complaint.

“I’m sorry,” Hillman said. “I’m sorry I did it.”

Click for more from The New York Post.A wayward tortoise that cracked its shell after falling off a 10-foot wall in California is recovering this week from a three-hour operation that cost $4,000.

Vets used screws, zip ties, denture material and plastic wrap to repair the 90-pound African spurred tortoise.

The cost is being covered by San Diego County Animal Service’s donor-driven Spirit Fund, which was set up to care for animals with severe medical needs.

“We have a donor-driven Spirit Fund that we can use for severe medical cases such as this one,” County Animal Services Director Dan DeSousa said, according to the county’s communications office. “This tortoise will get the extensive, aggressive care and long-term observation that he needs to regain his health and hopefully live to a great, old age.”

DeSousa said the male tortoise probably was a pet that got loose from a yard.

It was found Sunday after falling over the wall while escaping a dog. The fall caused the animal’s shell to crack into three pieces.

An animal control officer took the injured tortoise to a veterinarian that specializes in reptiles for emergency care and observation.

The 35- to 40-year-old tortoise will likely take a year to heal, DeSousa said, adding that the creature's prognosis is good.

African spurred tortoises typically live to be 70 years old.

If its rightful owner can’t be found, the now-repaired tortoise will live with a rescue group, and will not become available for adoption, the county communications office said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Deirdre Engle was on vacation with her family when she received a shocking call from the Kansas Department for Children and Families (DCF) alerting her that they had received a photo of her baby being "tied down" at a local day care facility.

As soon as Engle got home, she rushed to Kansas DCF to see the photo for herself. After registering that the baby pictured was in fact her 6-month-old daughter, Elora, Engle told Fox News she went "cold."

"When I first saw it, I didn't really think it was her. I had to look at it for a couple minutes before I believed," Engle said.

The baby was face-down and wrapped in a sleep sack, which was tied tight with a ponytail holder. And she allegedly wasn't the only child tied down at Miss Anne's Childcare and Learning Center in Leavenworth – several parents received heart-stopping calls from Kansas DCF in late March.

Kansas DCF confirmed to Fox News via email Thursday that parents of the alleged victims were all notified about the investigation on the same day, though the agency said it couldn't comment on individual cases.

"When I first saw it, I didn't really think it was her. I had to look at it for a couple minutes before I believed." - Deirdre Engle

Tanya, who asked Fox News not share her last name, said she was also contacted. At first, the organization asked if she liked the day care and wanted her thoughts on the "sleeping situation" in the infant room. Minutes later, they revealed the real reason they were calling: her 9-month-old was also tied up with a hair tie during nap time.

"The ponytail holder on his back makes it so he can't roll over," Tanya, a mother of four, explained. "He's on his stomach. He should have been laid on his back."

The restraint prevents the child from protecting himself if he spits up or can't breathe, Tanya explained. He wouldn't be able to turn himself to a safe position.

"My son could have died that day," Tanya said.

Engle echoed Tanya's concerns, "Imagine being tied in a way that wouldn't allow you to move muscles you are just learning to move, and not being able to communicate your distress. It's heartbreaking."

Swaddling is meant to stop a newborn from startling themselves awake with their arm flailing reflexes and to keep them snuggled and warm like they're still in the womb, Engle explained.

HealthyChildren.org says babies should sleep on their backs at all times until they are 1 year old. The site adds swaddling is fine as long as the baby is on its back and it's not too tight, making it hard for the baby to move or breathe.

"This was a baby, tied down so she couldn't move," Engle said.

The parents immediately pulled their children out of the facility as soon as the allegations surfaced, though Tanya admits she sat down with the owners to have a private conversation before sharing her story with the public.

"I would expect them to say, 'We're so sorry that this happened on our watch. We're appalled. We can't believe this happened.' I got none of that," Tanya said.

"I swore I'd protect my child and I meant it. And there's others out there just like me." - Tanya

Instead, Tanya says she was informed there was only one employee responsible for the restraints and was assured that person would be transferred out of infant care. It wasn't until weeks later –on April 16 – Tanya says, that the employee was terminated.

"When I found out [that employee] was still working during all this time I started getting concerned about the day care as a whole, not just one person," Tanya said. "Whatever happens under that roof is their responsibility."

The mothers are now sharing their stories in hopes that other parents will steer clear of the day care and pay closer attention to their day care's practices, especially when it comes to infants.

"Day care centers that are not upholding standards of care should see this as a warning," Tanya said. "I swore I'd protect my child and I meant it. And there's others out there just like me."

The Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) told Fox News in an emailed statement that it's currently reviewing child care licensing protocol to determine if there was any misconduct.

"KDHE is looking at different laws/regulations and applying different protocol," KDHE said, clarifying that its investigation is separate from Kansas DCF. "In FY 2017, the KPRC received 67,372 reports. Of these, 56 percent were assigned for further investigation."

Miss Anne's did not return Fox News' request for comment Thursday afternoon.In Washington and cities around the country last weekend, events labeled The March for Science should have been labeled The March Against Trump. Few Republicans were invited and marchers carried signs that urged “Resist” and other anti-Trump slogans.

One bizarre sign even mocked Ivanka Trump for promoting women in science. Promoting women in science is now an evil act?

In Los Angeles, one protester called for an end to the Trump-Pence “regime.” At the Seattle satellite march the headline speakers were both hyper-partisan Democrats: House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and local Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal.

Last year, the March for Science was almost entirely about politics – or as one writer noted, “a primal scream” against President Trump.

After receiving much criticism for being scientifically shallow, callow, and blatantly partisan last year, this year’s March for Science was supposed to be more sophisticated.

It wasn’t.

Despite the fact that the march’s website correctly says that “science does not belong to any political party,” Democrats usurped control of marches around the nation.

In fact, according to the Seattle Times, marches weren’t just about science – they included totally unrelated issues such as indigenous rights and national politics. Congresswoman Jayapal called EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt “a corrupt, greedy Cabinet secretary” who should be fired. She also declared: “Science is what allows us to all be better off.”

That latter statement is certainly true, but Jayapal seems strangely hesitant to answer any questions about it. One of us (Dr. Berezow) is her constituent and submitted a request to her office, inquiring about her position on issues ranging from mandatory vaccination and alternative medicine to genetic engineering and nuclear power. It went unanswered.

Jayapal’s dedication to science apparently does not extend to answering questions about scientific issues from actual scientists living in her district.

Partisanship aside, do the marchers actually have a point? One headline in Wired read: “As Scientists March, Federal Researchers Weather Trump Storm.”

Is it true that President Trump and congressional Republicans are at war with science? If they are, they have a funny way of showing it. In Washington, nothing speaks as loudly as money. And the $1.3 trillion omnibus spending bill passed by the Republican Congress and signed by President Trump last month contained massive increases in government funding for scientific research – the largest in a decade.

As reported in the journal Science, the budget for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) was boosted to $37 billion – an 8.3 percent increase.

The National Science Foundation received an extra $295 million – a 3.9 percent increase.

The Department of Energy got an additional $868 million – a whopping increase of 15 percent.

NASA’s budget was upped to $6.2 billion – a 7.9 percent increase.

The budget agreement even contains language enabling agencies to move forward with research on the causes of gun violence, a cause the March for Science leaders actually agree with, and one they lobby for on their website.

So instead of grumbling, the folks at the March for Science should have been celebrating. But there was very little of that, despite the fact that the massive increases in the federal science budget were far beyond the most optimistic wish list that any science advocate could have hoped for.

Additionally, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue recently made a change to his department’s policy that will make it easier to bring biotechnological products to the market.

What gives?

It’s clear that the March for Science was just a partisan publicity stunt designed to bash the GOP and President Trump. In the long run, that will undermine science. If Republicans believe that scientists and other self-described science advocates are just a partisan wolf in sheep’s clothing, Republicans will ignore them.

When science is politicized, everybody loses. For that reason, the March for Science deserves to be denounced or simply ignored.



Alex Berezow, a Ph.D. microbiologist, is senior fellow of biomedical science at the American Council on Science and Health and was the founding editor of RealClearScience.Following the death Tuesday of former first lady Barbara Bush, it didn’t take long before a radical and heartless university professor started spewing unbelievably vile, hate-filled rhetoric – actually celebrating Mrs. Bush’s death from behind the safety of a social media account.

Randa Jarrar, an English professor at California State University’s Fresno campus, launched into an obscenity-filled Twitter tirade that began: "Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F--- outta here with your nice words.”

Here is more of Jarrar’s euphoric excitement and nasty name-calling that she splashed across Twitter like a garbage truck spilling it contents: "PSA: either you are against these pieces of s--- and their genocidal ways or you're part of the problem. That's actually how simple this is. I'm happy the witch is dead. Can't wait for the rest of her family to fall to their demise the way 1.5 million Iraqis have. byyyeeeeeeee.”

Classy – and such a talented writer! Does this English professor assign her students to write filth like this this, and give them bonus points for swearing? How on Earth did she get to be an English professor, anyway?

And what kind of sick, twisted individual gleefully celebrates the death of a human being? Unless the death you’re celebrating is that of someone like Adolf Hitler or Usama Bin Laden.

Jarrar continued her tweet storm, expressing her joy that former President George W. Bush was probably very sad his mother was dead.

She became even more brazen and full of herself in her tweets, flaunting her salary and saying there was no way she could ever be fired because she has tenure. She even tagged the university’s president, and practically dared her critics to do the same if they didn’t like what she was saying.

The Fresno Bee reported: “The backlash on Twitter was immense on Tuesday night, with thousands of comments pouring in to condemn Jarrar for what she had said. Jarrar eventually made her social media accounts private.”

It initially looked as though the university was going to stand behind Jarrar and her hate speech. Fresno State President Joseph Castro released a statement Tuesday saying that while the school didn’t condone her comments, her views weren’t made as a representative of the university, but rather as a private citizen.

Really, President Castro? That argument doesn’t work when she’s citing her tenure and six-figure university salary.

At first the university was trying to have it both ways, distancing itself from Jarrar’s comments, while attempting to avoid holding her accountable for her speech.

However, amid a growing backlash, Lynnette Zelezny, the university’s provost, said Wednesday that tenure does not in fact protect Jarrar from being fired.

And after his initial comments, Castro said: “A professor with tenure does not have blanket protection to say and do what they wish. We are all held accountable for our actions.”

Far too often lately we’ve watched as conservatives have been invited to speak at universities by legitimate campus organizations only to be subjected to protests, heckling and even violence More often than not, the school administration appears to turn a blind eye to it all.

Is rejoicing at the death of Mrs. Bush the step too far? Have we finally seen a far-left extremist, who’s come completely unhinged, cross a line in the sand – or is this just wishful thinking?

The university provost said Jarrar can be fired. So why not fire her and make her the example all academia so desperately needs?

Jarrar talks about having the right to free speech in one of her tweets. This is the glaring ignorance we often hear from supposedly intelligent people who throw around the First Amendment to justify their hateful rants.

What they don’t seem to get is that the First Amendment protects them from the government suppressing their speech. What it does not protect them from is an employer’s freedom to decide they are bad for their brand.

If an employee chooses to publicly use vulgar, hateful language, or wish someone dead, an employer can decide that’s not somebody they want associated with their institution, organization or company.

Individuals still have the freedom to say all of those abhorrent things, but their speech has consequences.

In addition to being a professor, Jarrar is, according to her bio, is an “award-winning novelist, short story writer, essayist, and translator.” By society’s measuring stick, she’s successful.

Ironically, however, it was Mrs. Bush herself who said: "Never lose sight of the fact that the most important yardstick of your success will be how you treat other people – your family, friends, and co-workers, and even strangers you meet along the way."

By that account, Jarrar still has a long way to go to succeed. Mrs. Bush was the picture of class and dignity, and a glowing example of how to treat other people. She was admired and respected across the political spectrum – as the flood of tributes since her death has shown.

Jarrar is the polar opposite. She may be educated in the classroom, but in life the professor has lot to learn, and who better for her to learn it from than the late first lady?A few weeks ago, President Donald Trump was an outwardly happy man because of the utterance of one solitary word from the lips of special counsel Robert Mueller to one of Trump’s lawyers. The word that thrilled the president and his legal team was “subject.”

It seems that Mueller and one of Trump’s lawyers had been negotiating the terms under which the president would submit to an informal interrogation by Mueller and his team of prosecutors and FBI agents. Mueller’s request for such an interview was not unusual.

Investigators are usually looking to trap an unwary potential defendant into lying to them -- a crime in that environment, even though the potential defendant is not under oath -- or unwittingly admitting to them an allegation for which they need proof. The potential defendant often believes -- foolishly, as history has shown -- he can actually talk the investigators out of indicting him.

In preparation for this type of interview, the government often tells the lawyer for the person being interviewed whether that person is a witness, a subject or a target. A witness is a person whose knowledge and memory the government wishes to examine. A subject is a person whose behavior is under criminal investigation. A target is a person whom the government plans to indict.

When Trump and his team learned that he was just a subject and not a target, they rejoiced. And then, in a series of bizarre events, all hell broke loose, and his joy turned to gloom. Here is what happened.

In the course of its continuing investigation of Trump, Mueller’s team came across evidence of criminal behavior on the part of Michael Cohen, Trump’s longtime New York City lawyer. Because the evidence was related to activities that took place in New York City, Mueller sent the evidence to the chief federal prosecutor in Manhattan.

After a team of federal prosecutors there examined whatever Mueller brought them, in conjunction with what they already knew about Cohen, they applied to a federal judge for search warrants of venues where they believed Cohen kept files of his work. The search warrants were executed simultaneously at 5:30 in the morning two Mondays ago.

Cohen’s lawyers then filed a motion that asked a federal judge to prevent the federal prosecutors in Manhattan from examining what the FBI seized -- enough to fill a small pickup truck -- arguing that it was Cohen’s records of the legal work he had performed for his clients and thus was protected by the attorney-client privilege.

In opposition to Cohen’s motion, federal prosecutors argued that Cohen and Trump have engaged in behavior together that may have been criminal or fraudulent and that they used the attorney-client privilege to mask their communications.

The federal prosecutors also argued that Cohen was not truly performing legal work for Trump; rather, they said, he was a fixer of Trump’s image and a trickster to Trump’s adversaries. Then they revealed that the source of their purported knowledge of the Trump-Cohen relationship was surveillance of Cohen, whose telephone calls, emails and text messages the feds had been capturing for months.

That means that federal prosecutors have overheard the president of the United States in telephone conversations he believed were protected by privilege, in which he was talking to a man under criminal investigation who he has said was his lawyer.

When all this came to a head this past Monday in the federal courtroom of Judge Kimba Wood, she confronted a legally unusual situation. Trump’s lawyers demanded that everything seized from Cohen be turned over to Trump because he was and is -- as far as Trump knew -- Cohen’s sole client.

Cohen claimed he has three clients, and he demanded that all that was seized be examined by a neutral special master to determine what is privileged and what is not. The prosecutors demanded that they have access to all that was seized, because the seizure had already been approved by another federal judge when he signed the search warrants that triggered the FBI’s seizures.

Judge Wood ordered the FBI to copy all that was seized and send copies to lawyers for Trump and for Cohen and to federal prosecutors; and then the lawyers can argue to the court what is privileged and what is fair game for the prosecutors’ use. In the course of those arguments, federal prosecutors will see what was seized, whether privileged or not.

The attorney-client privilege protects from scrutiny or revelation the confidential communications of a client to his lawyer that are integral to the lawyer’s legal work for the client. The privilege does not apply to casual conversations between client and lawyer or if the lawyer is doing nonlegal work or if the client is committing a crime, a fraud, a tort or a regulatory violation and is consulting the lawyer about that.

Now we have a very perilous situation for the president. Records of whatever work Michael Cohen has been doing for him in the past 10 years will soon be in the custody of federal prosecutors who expect it to be evidence of wrongdoing on the part of the president himself. These are the best federal prosecutors in the country. They are civil service-protected and can only be fired for cause, and they have been listening to the president’s phone calls to his confidant and "fixer" and will soon see the fixer’s files.

Has Trump been in cahoots with a bad guy as federal prosecutors have alleged? Is this prosecutorial team in Manhattan more dangerous to Donald Trump than Mueller and his crew in Washington? Was evidence about Trump the real goal of those early-morning FBI raids? Is the president no longer just a subject and now a target of a new team of federal prosecutors? Who can safely confide in a lawyer after this?Thursday is Yom Ha'atzmaut – Israel Independence Day. On this day 70 years ago, as authorized by the United Nations, David Ben-Gurion declared the establishment of the Jewish state of Israel and became the nation’s first prime minister.

Independence Day – which began at sundown Wednesday in accordance with the Jewish calendar – is an occasion for celebration in Israel. Fireworks, concerts and parties began Wednesday night across the nation.

Israel received congratulations from the nation’s friends around the world – including President Trump, who tweeted: “Best wishes to Prime Minister @Netanyahu and all of the people of Israel on the 70th Anniversary of your Great Independence. We have no better friends anywhere. Looking forward to moving our Embassy to Jerusalem next month!”

And Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tweeted in response: “Thank you, President Trump! We have no better friend than America. We are greatly looking forward to your moving the embassy to Jerusalem, Israel’s eternal capital.”

The anniversary of Israel’s independence from Britain is also a day of denunciation from many countries opposed to Israel’s existence, since this day is known to Arabs as al-Nakba, or “the catastrophe” – and is the day the Arab nations surrounding Israel declared war against the newborn state in 1948, determined to wipe it off the map.

Israel’s existence inspires visceral responses from people, both positive and negative. People either see it as a bastion of stability and democracy, or a cause of instability and radicalization.

But whether they are for Israel or against it, everyone thinks they know it. That’s why I believe this 70th anniversary offers a perfect chance to meet the Israel you don’t know.

Over the past three years, film crews from CBN Documentaries have traveled to five remote locations around the globe to follow Israeli volunteers dedicating their time, talents and resources to international relief efforts and humanitarian aid.

Our documentary on their work is titled “To Life: How Israeli Volunteers are Changing the World” and is airing now on CBN and YouTube.

These Israelis are saving and changing lives wherever they go. Let me introduce you to just a few of the nonprofit organizations they work with:

Innovation: Africa is an Israeli organization on a mission to bring Israeli solar and water technology to remote African villages. So far, the organizations has helped improve the lives of nearly 1 million people across the continent. Because of Israeli innovation, crops now grow where people were once starving. Boys and girls study in classrooms with electric lights for the first time in their lives. Clean water brings life where contaminated water once brought disease and death.

Save a Child’s Heart is an Israeli-based international humanitarian project that provides lifesaving heart surgery and follow-up care for children from developing countries. The group gives these children free medical care regardless of their nationality, religion, color, gender or financial status.

Springs of Hope Foundation, another Israeli organization, provides food, supplies, medical care and comfort to the Yazidi refugees in Kurdistan. ISIS terrorists attacked the Yazidi people in Iraq in 2014, enslaving or killing thousands and creating a half-million refugees.

IsraAid is an Israeli group that provides lifesaving disaster relief wherever people are in crisis. Its professional medics, search-and-rescue squads and post-trauma experts have been on the frontlines of every major humanitarian crisis, from rescuing Syrian refugees in Greece to helping Texans in the wake of Hurricane Harvey.

This is not the Israel you read about in the headlines.

But I’ve saved the most surprising organization helping people around the world for last.

The Israel Defense Forces provide humanitarian aid worldwide. IDF doctors and nurses have established field hospitals at major disaster sites around the world, including Turkey, Nepal, Haiti, Mexico, the Philippines and even the United States.

I know that many other countries and organizations do amazing things to help those in crisis or in need. But very few nations do it while facing a steady drumbeat of criticism and U.N. condemnation.

After 70 years, I think it’s time we see the whole picture of the modern state of Israel. Perhaps it is time to see Israel as a light to the nations, and an example for us all.

So happy anniversary to Israel and l’chaim as you celebrate life.Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson is the latest celebrity to jump on the boozy bandwagon.

The professional wrestler-turned-actor has announced he will be launching his own tequila brand, Mana.

15 CELEBRITY-OWNED ALCOHOL BRANDS

Officials reportedly filed documents with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in January for the name, which is a Polynesian term for “spirit.”

The connection to Johnson and Mana goes back to his Samoan heritage and upbringing. The “Baywatch” star honored the supernatural force of Mana last year in the form of a 22-hour long tattoo of a bull.

“The core and anchor of this image is in the eye. Look closely and you'll find the life, energy, power and you'll feel the MANA (spirit). The eye tells the story of a disruptive positive energy always ready to dent the universe,” Johnson wrote on Instagram.

A post shared by therock (@therock) on Aug 11, 2017 at 8:26am PDT

Johnson has mentioned his love of both Mana and the agave liquor before, saying it was his preferred alcohol for cheat days, and even offering to bring his “finest tequila” to share with the crown prince of Saudi Arabia – though he caught some backlash since the country does not allow alcohol.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

No official word of when the liquor will be making its official debut.Giada De Laurentiis said Wednesday that the sexual misconduct allegations against Mario Batali don't “come as a huge shock” to her despite their close friendship with the embattled chef.

In an interview with Eater Upsell podcast, De Laurentiis, 47, said the last few months have been “really sad” for her regarding Batali, who has been accused of sexual harassment multiple women.

“I did not have those exact experiences with him, but it doesn’t come as a huge shock,” De Laurentiis said. “Anybody who’s ever hung out with Mario knows he’s a very charismatic person. We drink too much and sometimes ... I’m not legitimizing it by any means.”

MARIO BATALI’S BUSINESS PARTNER SAYS HE KNEW ABOUT SEXUAL HARASSMENT

The Food Network star said she has dealt with her “own issues in this business,” and said it was time women in the food industry supported each other.

“But I think we, as women, need to help each other more, and we need to stick up for ourselves, and I think that we need to change our culture, and the children need to learn to respect human beings, no matter what you look like, who you are, male or female. We just need to be respectful,” she said.

De Laurentiis revealed Batali, 57, and fellow “Food Network Star” co-host Bobby Flay helped her open her first restaurant in Las Vegas. She also regarded Batali as a mentor to her “for a long time.”

Several women who worked for Batali accused the former “Chew” host of “inappropriate touching in a pattern of behavior that spans at least two decades,” Eater reported in December. The chef apologized in a statement, saying “the behavior described does, in fact, match up with ways I have acted.”

MARIO BATALI CHEWED OUT FOR INCLUDING RECIPE IN SEXUAL MISCONDUCT APOLOGY

“I apologize to the people I have mistreated and hurt. Although the identities of most of the individuals mentioned in these stories have not been revealed to me, much of the behavior described does, in fact, match up with ways I have acted. That behavior was wrong and there are no excuses,” he wrote.

Fans, however, lambasted Batali for including a recipe in the newsletter with his apology.

Batali has since been dropped from ABC’s “The Chew” and stepped away from the day-to-day operations of his restaurant businesses.Reba McEntire has found romance again with the help of her new boyfriend, Anthony “Skeeter” Lasuzzo, and her friend couldn’t be happier.

“I see her completely at ease with him,” Melissa Peterman, former “Reba” co-star, told Closer Weekly Wednesday. “He adores her wholeheartedly, which is what we all want, right?”

The magazine noted the 63-year-old was still recovering from 2015 divorce from her husband of 26 years, 61-year-old Narvel Blackstock, when she met Lasuzzo while on vacation in Wyoming in 2017.

Peterman insisted Lasuzzo, a retired oil executive, doesn’t seem to be fazed by the country singer’s stardom.

“I don’t think it even causes a stir,” she said. “He is a confident guy. And when you’re hanging with the crazy crew that Reba has, you gotta be a good sport and be able to roll, and he totally does!”

McEntire and Lasuzzo stirred headlines when they hit the red carpet at the Grammys earlier this year.

Back in 2016, Us Weekly reported McEntire initially didn’t want to divorce her now-ex-husband.

“The divorce was not my idea,” she explained to CMT’s Cody Alan. “I didn’t want it in any shape, form or fashion. So it was really hard to make the adjustment, when someone’s not happy. I just want everybody to be happy in their lives because our lives are too short to be miserable.”

McEntire and Blackstock announced the end of their marriage in 2015. Her previous marriage lasted from 1976 until 1987. The music icon credited her faith to cope with the more recent split.

“The thing that got me through this change in life, is number one, God,” she explained. “I prayed every day to help me have the strength to move one foot in front of the other, and continue on with what I’m supposed to be doing… and then with my team… and my friends, my family, my girlfriends.”

McEntire added, “You know, you just got to have a great team of people around you that you love, and they love you, and I’m very blessed to have those people. I thank God for it all.”

Shortly before the divorce in 2015, McEntire told Fox News she celebrated her birthday with Blackstock in Arizona where she served as the emcee for Muhammad Ali’s celebrity fight night benefit. She had also released a new album, titled “Love Somebody.”

“These are songs that touched my heart,” she said. "When I heard them, that’s when I knew I wanted to record them. I think the main thing that’s different about this album is the overall theme. It’s about love – falling in, falling out, being in. I’ve never had a teamed album, so I guess this is the closest to that.”

And when McEntire was asked about what advice she would give to herself if she could go back and change anything about her twenties, the country crooner had plenty to say.

“My twenties?! Do you know how long ago that was?!” she said. “… I know I made lots of mistakes… but I guess everything happens for a reason, and everything you do is a learning process. I could probably write you a list if I had time – well, if you had time – for me to sit here and write it all down. I mean, I was 21, got married probably way too early, but I learned a lot.”The boys see change hit close to home as their beloved comic book store gets overrun with strangers on Season 11, Episode 21 of "The Big Bang Theory."

The episode opens with the boys on the roof tinkering with Raj’s new high-powered telescope. As they’re working to see Mercury, Stuart checks his phone to see that famed author Neil Gaiman recommended the comic book store to his followers on Twitter. It turns out he popped in while the boys were arguing about the strongest metal in comic books, causing them to fail to realize a celebrity was in their midst.

Meanwhile, as Raj positions his telescope in the hopes of spotting the planet, he lets Penny take a look. When she does, she notices something fuzzy and snaps a picture. It turns out Raj inadvertently discovered a comet in his search for Mercury. He arrives at Leonard and Penny’s place the next day to announce the good news. However, Penny takes issue with him assuming it was his discovery.

Penny argues that she’s the one who noticed it and took the picture to prove its existence. Raj, on the other hand, believes that since he positioned the telescope and understood what it was, the discovery should belong to him. He notes that if a monkey snapped the picture, they wouldn’t credit it with the discovery. This infuriates Penny, who throws him out of their apartment.

Later, she explains to Leonard that she’s sick of not being taken seriously in her friend group and at work. She feels that people immediately typecast her as a ditz and therefore she gets no respect. Leonard says he agrees, but suggests letting the issue with Raj go. An already angry Penny storms off saying that he’s too much of a people-pleaser to side with his wife.

Meanwhile, Sheldon arrives at the comic book store to find that Gaiman’s tweet gave business a real shot in the arm. He’s upset to see his once beloved comic book store overrun by strangers. Even Howard and Bernadette are inconvenienced by the sudden influx of customers as it means Stuart can’t leave the store to babysit as much.

To compensate, he hires a new employee, Denise. While she’s able to give Stuart a break, Sheldon is flummoxed by the continued change. He complains about the new female employee to Amy, who is annoyed thinking that her fiance would be so small-minded as to lament a female who likes comic books. He corrects her noting that he simply doesn’t like change, but will give her a shot.

The next day, he tests her mettle by seeing if she can recommend a comic to him without any instruction. She passes the test just by looking at the Green Lantern symbol on his shirt. Just like that, he’s won over by the new employee and suddenly can’t stop talking about her at home. This sends Amy into a bit of a jealous rage, prompting her to confront Denise at the comic book store to demand that she teach her how to fake liking comic books.

Meanwhile, Leonard comes back to the apartment after failing to get Raj to back down on the comet discovery issue. He admits to Penny that he caved when Raj explained how important it was to him, but also noted that it was foolish of him to even attempt to fight Penny’s battles for her. With a new sense of confidence, she goes over to Raj’s and almost instantly secures getting her name on the discovery.

The episode ends with Amy trying to bond with Sheldon over comics, but he is not interested having burnt himself out talking to Denise so much. A dejected amy throws her new comic book away with a huff.A writer for "The Late Show With Stephen Colbert" has found herself in hot water over a tweet she wrote about the death of former first lady Barbara Bush.

"RIP Barbara Bush, the only woman who was 92 for 30 years," Jen Spyra tweeted shortly after news broke of Bush's passing.

RIP Barbara Bush, the only woman who was 92 for 30 years. — Jen Spyra (@jenspyra) April 18, 2018

Spyra quickly garnered a negative reaction for the tweet from her followers.

"Wow! That is incredibly insensitive and rude," one user wrote.

"Quite sickening!" another one said.

One person chimed in, "This is the tolerance and acceptance we hear so much about on the left. Way to lift up your fellow women."

This is the tolerance and acceptance we hear so much about on the left. Way to lift up your fellow women. Let them know it's not ok if they don't age well. So glad we have people like you around to let us know how morally bankrupt we are. 🤪 — American Robot (@TheRealJeepin2k) April 18, 2018

"A family just lost a love one and you have jokes about said person...let alone a joke that’s not funny. Then again, neither is Colbert!" a user tweeted.

FYI: Sometimes it's better not to _try_ to be funny. Sometimes saying nothing is better. — Anne Choat (@annie7265) April 18, 2018 Cruel and not funny. — Miss Norma Jeane (@rosanthony3) April 18, 2018

A rep for the "Late Show" did not immediately return Fox News' request for comment.

However, Spyra's tweet did receive a positive reaction from comedian Josh Weisman who simply replied, "Awesome" to her tweet. She answered the "Corporate" star, "We all do our part."

It's not the first time a CBS employee has raised eyebrows on social media.

Top CBS lawyer Hayley Geftman-Gold was axed in October 2017 after she said she was "not even sympathetic" to victims of the Las Vegas shooting because "country music fans often are Republican."

A @CBS legal exec thought the Las Vegas victims had it coming. pic.twitter.com/YjeSyAox59 — Brandon Morse (@TheBrandonMorse) October 2, 2017

Geftman-Gold later issued an apology, but it was too late. CBS told Fox News at the time that the network let her go because she "violated the standards of our company."This kid pushes all the right buttons. Eventually.

Video from Turkey’s DHA news captures the moment an adorable toddler locked in a car figures out how to escape.

It’s not clear how the young child got stuck inside the Audi sedan in the first place, but a crowd of people surrounding the vehicle encouragingly talk him through the process of finding the keyfob and using it to unlock the door.

The video, picked up by Jalopnik, goes on for a frustrating three minutes, but comes to a satisfying end when the door finally pops open.

Everyone’s just lucky he didn’t hit the Start button, instead.Enemies of the United States will soon have to face a new devastating missile in the nation’s arsenal - a destroyer of enemy warships.

This new missile can penetrate deep into enemy space to sink their warships. Loaded with tech to make it “smart,” it both detects and destroys targets. An enemy could try to unleash electronic warfare to protect their warships, but these unstoppable missiles will still strike and destroy.

The Long Range Anti-Surface Missile (LRASM) is a missile that takes firepower in naval battles to a whole other level. In future naval encounters, the U.S. military can unleash LRASMs to strike enemy warships from both the air and the sea.

Stealth bombers, fighter jets and destroyers will deliver more than 1,000 pounds of explosive, destructive power to the deck of an enemy warship.

DARPA and the U.S. Navy funded the LRASM concept. Ultimately, Lockheed Martin won the contract to provide the LRASMs with their state-of-the art design.

FUTURISTIC NAVY SEAL BOAT DUBBED 'BATMOBILE'

LRASM detects a threat, identifies it, tracks the moving enemy warship and then precisely strikes with devastating power. With its advanced tech, it can even zero in on a specific ship within a group of ships, steadfastly undeterred by the enemy’s electronic warfare capabilities.

Russia and China have armed their navies to the teeth – fully loaded to attack U.S. forces if ordered to do so.

But with the LRASM, the destructive power, range and precision of U.S. missile strikes in future naval battles will be significantly ramped up – no navy on Earth would want to face this warship killer.

The distance advantage

It is expected that this new missile will be able to strike enemy warships as far away as 500 nautical miles.

Distance is crucial. If the U.S. Navy can strike farther away than any enemy can reach, then it keeps sailors out of enemy strike range while lobbing staggering, incapacitating blows with the LRASMs.

Immensely powerful warhead

Enemy warships will be struck with immense destructive power. The LRASM delivers a massive 1,000 pound penetrator and blast fragmentation warhead.

Defeats electronic warfare

The LRASM also possesses advanced tech - an enhanced digital anti-jam Global Positioning System means it can’t be confused or lose its target even when confronted with electronic attempts to stop the missile.

PODCAST: HEAR THIS MARINE’S FASCINATING JOURNEY FROM FIREFIGHTS IN AFRICA TO SPECIAL OPERATIONS MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE FUEL IN BROOKLYN

What will fire these missiles?

This new missile will be used by the U.S. Navy and Air Force. In fact, it can be launched by both aircraft and warships to destroy enemy naval threats anywhere in the world.

NEW FOAM ARMOR FOR TANKS CAN PULVERIZE ENEMIES

Someday soon ships will be armed with LRASMs and protected by this decisively powerful missile.

The first phase of rollout will be to provide attack capabilities and fleet protection from the air. The current plan is to arm the USAF B1 bombers with them. Recent tests with these stealth bombers have proven very promising indeed.

Next, the U.S. Navy Super hornets, the F/A-18E/F, will ramp up their firepower with LRASMs. Super Hornets can launch off of aircraft carriers, which makes them an excellent choice for supporting a U.S. naval offensive. It also means they can be ready to scramble to protect the fleet within moments, if need be. With their fighter jet speed, they could launch LRASMs to destroy incoming enemy warships before they are within range to attack the fleet.

Eventually, the LRASM could be deck-launched on Navy destroyers.

How does it work?

With a Weapon Data Link, the LRASM can receive in-flight targeting updates after it is launched.

MARINES' ULTRA-POWERFUL HEAVILY-ARMED MEGA-DRONE WILL DEVASTATE ENEMIES OF THE US

When the LRASM transitions to autonomous guidance, it then carries out and completes its mission on its own. The onboard sensors gather continuous information on the target. LRASM uses the data to identify the target. As the missile approaches the enemy warship, it verifies it has zeroed in on the right target. Finally, the missile strikes the target with gigantic power - enough to sink many types of enemy warships.

PODCAST: LIFE INSIDE THE COVERT WORLDS OF MARINE RECON, SPECIAL FORCES + DELTA WITH WARRIOR’S WARRIOR MIKE PANNONE

Defeating invisible threats

Today missiles need to successfully penetrate heavily aggressive electronic-warfare environments.

One method of electronic warfare that is familiar to most folks is jamming. An enemy can launch an attack that would stop signals the missile needs to pass through to strike. In simplified terms, an enemy can launch “jamming” to prevent a missile from receiving its GPS directions. This is similar to when the GPS suddenly stops working when driving a car to reach a destination so the directions to your target destination are suddenly no longer available.

AMAZING MILITARY ATVS ARMED WITH LASER WEAPONS WILL BLAST DRONES OUT OF THE SKY

Similarly, some missiles in military arsenals around the world can get confused without GPS and no longer know how to find their targets.

LRASM’s smarts mean that no matter what sort of invisible electronic warfare weapons, like denying GPS, are thrown at it – the enemy cannot confuse or stop the missile from striking its target.

Why does it matter?

The LRASM is vital. Countries like Russia and China have been aggressively ramping up their naval fleets across the board on everything from submarines through to surface missiles. Many would argue tensions between these countries and the United States have intensified of late.

While adversaries have been advancing their missiles for naval battles, the United States has arguably not been as focused on this area. The Navy relies on missiles like the Harpoon that date back nearly 50 years.

US MILITARY EYES FUTURISTIC 'BIONIC ARM' FOR TROOPS

The Harpoon has a maximum range of about 67 nautical miles – the LRASM will now provide a range of more than 7 times the Harpoon’s maximum.

The SM-6s are a more recent missile model also designed to strike enemy warships. Publicly, this missile is reported to deliver about 200 nautical miles, but the warhead is smaller and less powerful than the Harpoon. The LRASM will provide approximately more than twice the distance of the SM-6s – and with significantly more overwhelming impact too.

What’s next?

LRASMs have already been successfully tested with B1-B stealth bombers. The missiles are expected to be integrated with F/A-18 Super Hornets for testing this year. In 2019, LRASMs will hopefully reach Naval destroyers and prove just as precise and devastating launched when launched from military platforms on the water.The discovery of vast reserves of rare-earth elements on a tiny Japanese island, that can be used in everything from iPhones to missile systems to electric vehicles, has been described as a "game changer."

Minami-Torishima Island, also known as Marcus Island, is described as having "tremendous potential" for rare-earth elements and yttrium (REY), according to a study published in Scientific Reports.

"This REY-rich mud has great potential as a rare-earth metal resource because of the enormous amount available and its advantageous mineralogical features," the study reads. The study shows that more than 16 million tons of rare-earth elements could be "exploited in the near future."

METEORITE HUNTERS: SCIENTISTS SET TO SCOUR ANTARCTICA FOR RARE SPACE ROCKS

Including ytrrium (Y), which is used in products like camera lenses and mobile phone screens, the rare-earth elements found are: Europium (EU), Terbium (Tb) and Dysprosium (Dy).

"The research area was estimated to be able to supply Y, Eu, Tb, and Dy for 780, 620, 420, and 730 years, respectively, and has the potential to supply these metals on a semi-infinite basis to the world," the report adds.

The metals are expensive, making the find extremely valuable, with some estimates putting the value of the island's rare earth oxide alone at approximately $500 billion.

Yttrium is currently worth $3,400 per pound, Europium costs $20,000 per 100 grams and Terbium sells for $1,800 per 100 grams. Dysprosium, the cheapest of the rare-earth elements discovered, only costs $450 per 100 grams.



The sample size was estimated to contain 1.2 million tons of "rare-earth oxide." The study was conducted jointly by researchers with Waseda University Yutaro Takaya, and Yasuhiro Kato of the University of Tokyo and others.

In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Technology Metals Research LLC founding principal Jack Lifton said, "this is a game-changer for Japan," adding, "The race to develop these resources is well under way."

THIS TINY DIAMOND CONTAINS A MINERAL THAT'S NEVER BEEN SEEN BEFORE

Though it would likely be expensive to remove the rare-earth materials from the island, it would give Japan and the world, more control over these elements, which are used in products such as rechargeable batteries, wind turbines, and many medical and military technologies.

China held approximately 95 percent of the rare-earth production as of 2015, according to CNN.

The country severely restricts exports of these elements at times of diplomatic tension, including a shortage in 2010 for Japanese manufacturers, news.com.au reported.

Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_CiacciaTwo extremely rare letters written by a passenger on Titanic rescue ship RMS Carpathia are up for auction in the U.K. this weekend.

The previously unpublished accounts detail the rescue of survivors from the doomed liner. Titanic hit an iceberg at 11:40 p.m. ship's time on April 14, 1912, and sank just over two hours later with the loss of more than 1,500 lives.

Dated April 17, 1912, the letters are written by Eleanor Danforth, a passenger on Carpathia, which was traveling from New York to Europe when it received Titanic’s distress call. As the Carpathia rushed to the site of the disaster, Danforth describes standing on the ship’s deck and seeing, in the darkness, the “glimmer of the iceberg” that Titanic struck.

HAUNTING TITANIC PHOTO SHOWS DISASTER VICTIM'S BURIAL AT SEA

Urged to return to her stateroom, Danforth watched the rescue unfold from a porthole. “There I watched the first boat come in, the people climbing the ladder up the side of the ship or being pulled up in a swing sort of thing,” she wrote. “A bag was let down for the babies and children. Shortly after we went up on deck again, and the boats came in one by one.”

Carpathia arrived at the scene of the disaster just hours after Titanic’s sinking. “How some of those people stood the cold and, half-frozen as they must have been, managed to climb the ladder I don’t understand, because some of them were in the lifeboats about seven or eight hours, if not longer,” Danforth wrote. “Some were dressed in evening clothes, some in anything and everything, and others in only their nightclothes.”

Desperate to help, Danforth helped clothe and feed two French children, aged about 18 months and three years, and gave items of clothing to other survivors.

TITANIC STUNNER: MENU FROM FIRST MEAL SERVED ON DOOMED OCEAN LINER UP FOR AUCTION

“Everything and everywhere is filled with people. We have two people in our stateroom – a girl and her mother who are both ever so nice, and we were fortunate in having people who have the rest of their family on board as they are much more cheerful,” she wrote.

The letters, which have a pre-sale estimate of about $7,000 to $11,300, will be auctioned by Henry Aldridge & Son on April 21.

Other artifacts up for auction this weekend include the rare photo of a Titanic victim’s burial at sea and a menu from the first meal served on the liner.

TITANIC TREASURES SOLD AT UK AUCTION

In 2016, the sextant used by Carpathia's captain sold for just under $97,000. Three photos and a handwritten note detailing the grisly discovery of Titanic’s last lifeboat were sold for $6,800.

Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersMichael Phelps opened up about his battle with depression and said he thought about killing himself after the 2012 Summer Olympics.

Phelps, the most decorated Olympian in history, told CBS News his depression took over his life despite his success as a professional swimmer.

"There was one point, I didn't want to be alive," Phelps told the network. "You know, as Olympians, you set four years to build up to this moment. And then, after it's over, you're kind of lost in a way.”

Phelps said the uncertainty after the Olympic Games takes a toll on athletes.

“And a lot of us do suffer from depression,” he added.

Phelps recalled an incident after the 2012 Summer Olympics in London when he checked how many pills of Ambien, a drug to treat sleep disorders, he had. The Olympian said it’s unclear what could have happened if he had more than one pill left.

"I think it's something that nobody's really talked about in the past because we're supposed to be this big, macho, strong person that has no weaknesses," Phelps said. "You know, we're supposed to be perfect. And for me, I carried it along for so long and never really talked about it... part of that was probably just a fear of rejection."

Phelps said his mindset going into the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro shifted after he sought help. He began seeing therapists and continues with sessions today.

Phelps previously spoke about his battle with depression to Us Weekly and said he’s speaking out about the “darkest part” of his life to let others know that “it is OK to not be OK.”Tristian Thompson has been benched.

The 27-year-old NBA star returned to the court on Wednesday night for the first round of playoff games, but the basketball player didn't do much playing. Or any for that matter. According to People, Thompson remained on the Cleveland Cavaliers' bench for the entirety of the game.

Thompson's bench warming comes just days after his girlfriend, Khloe Kardashian, gave birth to a baby girl, following the multiple allegations that he cheated on her with several women.

But a day before Kardashian gave birth to their daughter, True Thompson, the basketball player was booed by fans during his April 11 game against the New York Knicks. TMZ reported Thompson avoided having his name announced over the PA system.

During the game, fans even held up signs in support of the 9-months-pregnant Kardashian, who reportedly went “ballistic” when Thompson’s alleged cheating actions were made public.

Also on Wednesday, a source revealed to People that Thompson is reportedly not living in his Cleveland house with Kardashian and their daughter. According to the magazine, Thompson has been in and out of the home to see his daughter but is not staying.

Other insider revealed that the new mom is anxious to get back to Los Angeles, but has to remain in Cleveland until doctors clear her to travel. But while in Ohio, Kardashian's sisters, Kourtney, Kim and Kendall, flew to the state to visit baby True and also to celebrate Kourtney's 39th birthday. Her siblings have since returned to L.A., where Kardashian soon hopes to join them.

Thompson will travel to Indiana for his next playoff game on Friday.The prosecutor in the Minnesota county where Prince died announced Thursday there will be no criminal charges filed in Prince's death after a two-year probe failed to find evidence of who provided the late singer with counterfeit Vicodin that was laced with fentanyl.

The announcement came hours after documents revealed a doctor accused of illegally prescribing an opioid for Prince had agreed to pay $30,000 to settle a federal civil violation.

Metz said the evidence shows Prince thought he was taking Vicodin, not fentanyl. He said there's no evidence any person associated with Prince knew he possessed any counterfeit pill containing fentanyl.

"Despite their extensive efforts, law enforcement was unable to determine the source of the counterfeit Vicodin laced with fentanyl," Metz said. "Nothing in the evidence suggests Prince knowingly took fentanyl."

Prince was 57 when he was found alone and unresponsive in an elevator at his Paisley Park estate on April 21, 2016.

An autopsy found Prince died of an accidental overdose of fentanyl, a synthetic opioid 50 times more powerful than heroin.

While Carver County said it was ending its role in the case, the U.S. Attorney's Office had no immediate comment on the status of its investigation.

But a law enforcement official close to the investigation told The Associated Press that the federal investigation is now inactive unless new information comes forward. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because the case remains open.

Federal prosecutors and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration alleged Schulenberg, a family physician who saw Prince at least twice before he died, violated the Controlled Substances Act when he wrote a prescription in the name of someone else on April 14, 2016.

The settlement, dated Monday, does not name Prince or make any references to the Prince investigation. However, search warrants previously released say Schulenberg told authorities he prescribed oxycodone to Prince on April 14 and put it under the name of Prince's bodyguard and close friend, Kirk Johnson, "for Prince's privacy."

Schulenberg's attorney, Amy Conners, has disputed that and did so again on Thursday, saying that Schulenberg settled the case to avoid the expense and uncertain outcome of litigation.

Oxycodone, the generic name for the active ingredient in OxyContin, was not listed as a cause of Prince's death. But it is part of a family of painkillers driving the nation's overdose and addiction epidemic, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Nearly 2 million Americans abused or were addicted to prescription opioids, including oxycodone, in 2014.

A laboratory report obtained by The Associated Press notes that one of the pills found in a prescription bottle in Paisley Park that bore Johnson's name tested positive for oxycodone.

The settlement notes that the agreement "is neither an admission of facts nor liability by Dr. Schulenberg." And in a separate letter to Schulenberg's attorneys, prosecutors say Schulenberg is not currently a target of any criminal investigation.

It's illegal for a doctor to write a prescription for someone under another person's name. Anyone convicted of doing so could lose their DEA registration — meaning they could no longer prescribe controlled substances — and could face discipline from their state medical board.

The settlement says the DEA won't revoke Schulenberg's registration, unless he does not comply. It's unclear whether the state medical board will take action. His license is currently active and he has no disciplinary action against him.

Prince did not have a prescription for fentanyl. While many who knew Prince over the years said he had a reputation for clean living, some said he also struggled with pain after years of performing at an intense level. Documents unsealed last year paint a picture of a man struggling with an addiction to prescription opioids and withdrawal, and they also show there were efforts to get him help.

Just six days before he died, Prince passed out on a plane, and an emergency stop was made in Moline, Illinois. The musician had to be revived with two doses of a drug that reverses the effects of an opioid overdose.

The day before his death, Paisley Park staffers contacted California addiction specialist Dr. Howard Kornfeld as they were trying to get Prince help. Kornfeld sent his son, Andrew, to Minnesota that night, and the younger Kornfeld was among those who found Prince's body. Andrew Kornfeld was carrying buprenorphine, a medication that can be used to help treat opioid addiction.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The reboot of "Roseanne" is noticeably missing the late Glenn Quinn.

Quinn, who died of a heroin overdose in 2002 at age 33, played Becky's handsome but not very smart boyfriend-turned-husband, Mark Healy, in the original series.

Now, Quinn's cast members pay tribute to the late actor in a variety of ways, In Touch reports.

"Not only is Darlene's (Sara Gilbert) son named after Uncle Mark," a "Roseanne" insider told the magazine. "But Roseanne has a photo of Glenn on the set that the entire cast touches before they take their opening bows."

'Roseanne' reveals why Darlene and David broke up -- and if they'll ever get back together

The Irish-born actor was also known for his role on "Angel."

The "Roseanne" reboot has been a huge ratings success for ABC. It has gained a lot of attention for featuring a pro-Trump character.

The show's star Roseanne Barr revealed to reporters back in January it was important to her to showcase her character as a pro-Trump American.

“It’s just realistic,” she explained. “I have always … attempted to portray a realistic portrait of the American people and working class people. And, in fact, it was working class people that elected Trump so I felt that was very real and something that needed to be discussed."While Botox is most commonly associated with middle-aged people looking to turn back the clock, there’s a growing trend among the younger set who want to fight off signs of aging before they ever show up. And in a social-media obsessed world flooded with selfies, it’s no surprise millennials are turning to this option in order to look their best.

“The largest growing demographic at my practice are millennials in their late 20s and early 30s,” Dr. Paul Jarrod Frank, celebrity cosmetic dermatologist and founder of PFRANKMD and PFRANKMD Skin Salon in New York City, told Fox News.

MICROBLADING: THE FACE TATTOO YOU'LL ACTUALLY WANT TO GET

Preventative Botox, the concept of treating the facial muscles that you use more frequently in order to avoid wrinkles from forming, has become an increasingly popular procedure for young people. “These days, it’s just another form of grooming (like getting waxed, coloring your hair, getting facials, etc),” Dr. Frank said. Annual statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons confirm this trend, as reported Botox procedures increased 28 percent since 2010 among 20 to 29-year-olds.

So what exactly is Botox and how does it work? Botox is a popular name brand for Botulinum Toxin Type A, a neuromodulator that works as a “selective muscle relaxer” to reduce dynamic wrinkles of motion, according to Dr. Frank. It’s a protein made by a commonly known bacteria that temporarily paralyzes muscle. There are other brands out there that work the same way, but are like “different shades of the same color paint allowing us to customize to each patient,” as Dr. Frank describes it.

There’s no exact age when you should start getting Botox, but the sooner you treat signs of aging, the better your results will be. “I don’t like to tell people to treat what they don’t have, but if you’re starting to see traces of lines in your mid-to-late twenties or early thirties, it is best to clean your room before it gets dirty,” Dr. Frank said. “If someone is expressive with their face and prone to getting lines, they should consider exploring a preventative neuromodulator. The later you start the more difficult it is to achieve the ideal results.”

If you’re scared of getting that stereotypical “frozen” look, as long as you visit a skilled doctor who knows how to cater to younger clientele, your results will be subtle and natural looking with plenty of movement left in your face. “Botox will not be noticeable if it is injected in small doses by a skilled dermatologist. Patients will look more rested, brows more defined and if done right eyes more open and youthful,” Dr. Frank said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

As far as choosing where to go for Botox, Dr. Frank recommends seeking out someone with good credentials who is well versed with all brands of neuromodulators, and steering clear of heavily discounted treatments. “Botox can range from $400 to $1,200 per syringe around the country, depending on type of filler and demographic. Anything less would often be used by a Groupon-like provider who is basically doing the Botox at cost. These doctors are doing it more so to draw patients into the practice so they can get more patients and I wouldn’t trust them.”A woman branded a "chocolate chip cookie" by cruel bullies because she was born covered in birthmarks has stripped down to promote body positivity.

Lorena Bolanos, 24, has more than a dozen raised birthmarks, also known as congenital melanocytic nevi, or moles, including a large one which covers much of her torso.

She was taunted as a teenager by peers who called her "Dalmatian" and "chocolate chip cookie" and urged her to take her own life.

Bolanos, an import and export manager, was once even asked to leave an ice-rink because a customer suspected she had measles.

She fell into a deep depression during her first year of university after years of enduring negative comments about her appearance.

For most of her life, Bolanos said she was ashamed to expose her birthmarks in public and dressed in long-sleeved t-shirts and scarves despite the hot climate.

However, her attitude towards her own body started to change earlier this year when she saw an online troll abuse another woman on Facebook about her appearance.

It was in that moment that Bolanos said she began to see the beauty in herself and made a conscious effort to rise above all the negativity she had received growing up.

Now the body positivity activist has bared almost everything in a revealing photoshoot as part of the Underneath We Are Women project, which champions diversity.

“When I was a little kid it wasn’t a problem," Bolanos, of Queretaro, Mexico, said. "My mom always said, ‘You’re a healthy child don’t worry about it’."

“It was when I started school that it got really terrible," she said. "I was so uncomfortable. Kids would stare at me and they started calling me ‘Dalmatian’ which was so hurtful and cruel. It made me feel so bad about myself. I would come home from school and just cry with my mom. When I was a teenager, I just didn’t have relationships. I wasn’t confident enough."

“In middle school I was lucky to have a group of really supportive friends but in high school, everything changed," Bolanos said. “I was on my phone one evening when this guy from my school sent me a message. It said, ‘Why don’t you just kill yourself?’ I had become so used to it that I just ignored it, but when I showed it to my friend she was outraged. She asked him how he could ever dream of saying that to someone."

“Once I was on an ice rink with my friends, I was in middle school," she recounted. “One worker asked me to leave the place because a lady said that I had measles and was going to spread the virus. It was so hurtful."

“A few months ago, I was reviewing Facebook and there is a girl I follow who talks about makeup and beauty," she said. “I saw a guy comment on one of her posts that her mole disgusted him. I thought to myself, she is so beautiful, how can anyone talk to people like this."

“It inspired me to take a photo of my own body in a bikini and put it on Instagram," Bolanos said. “For my whole life I had covered up because I was ashamed but I just decided to tell my story and show the world my marks."

“I never dreamed of the response. I had moms writing to me that their daughters were inspired by me," she said.

The response to Bolano's post was so large that she came to the attention of Underneath We Are Women curator, Amy Herrmann.

Bolano's flew to Santa Monica to be photographed by Herrmann for the project in March, which will result in the production of a photo book celebrating different bodies.

“I was really terrified but Amy made me feel so comfortable," she said. “I didn’t tell many people except my mom, but she encouraged me to do it if it made me happy."

Although Bolano has to protect her skin from the sun because she is at greater risk of skin cancer, she said she has grown to love her body for what it is.

"With my birthmarks, I need to be very careful about sun protection. I have to make sure I cover up and wear a lot of SPF," she said. “But the reason I wanted to be more open about my body is because I want to change the concept of beauty. Before, my moles weren’t beautiful to me but I’ve learned to accept myself and love my body because it’s the only one I’ve got."The new Ford F-150 diesel will be the most fuel-efficient full-size pickup ever made when it goes on sale in May. The official EPA highway rating rating for 2WD trucks with the 3.0-liter turbodiesel V6 is 30 mpg on the highway and 22 mpg in the city, Ford announced on Thursday.

That makes it precisely as efficient as the smaller, diesel-powered Chevy Colorado midsize pickup. It also beats the most recent Ram 1500 diesel’s highway rating of 27 mpg, although an all-new one is on the way next year, as is a Chevrolet Silverado with a straight-six-cylinder turbodiesel engine.

Ford’s new motor comes with a 10-speed automatic transmission and puts out 250 hp and 440 lb-ft of torque, which the automaker says is good for up to an 11,400-pound tow rating and a maximum payload capacity of 2,020 pounds, depending on the configuration of the vehicle.

Ford predicts diesel-powered models to account for around 5 percent of F-150 sales, which translates to approximately 45,000 pickups, and has priced the option $2,400 higher than F-150’s 375 hp 3.5-liter EcoBoost V6.

ARE YOU FOLLOWING FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK YET?Thousands of the top medical doctors, scientists and researchers from around the world gathered at the American Association for Cancer Research annual meeting in Chicago, IL, this month to discuss innovative approaches to handling cancer, which affects nearly 40 percent of American men and women.

About 1 in 3 Americans will be diagnosed with cancer in their lifetimes and close to 600,000 will die from the disease this year. Dr. Lisa M. Coussens, Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, is trying to lower those numbers, however she acknowledges that a disease “as heterogeneous as cancer,” meaning there are many forms and not just one disease type, is difficult to manage because every person is different and “their genetics that allowed for that tumor to develop are distinct.”

Dr. Coussens focuses her lab research on immunotherapy and “inflammation in cancer.”

“The research in my lab is predominately focused on the area called inflammation in cancer, where we try to understand how normal immune cells help or hinder tumor development.”

Today, Dr. Coussens’ lab findings support half a dozen clinical trials that are using immune pathways to regulate and target tumor development. Though, the targeted approach is aiming to treat cancer in a way that allows patients to live better, longer lives with the disease, but not necessarily cure it.

“I don't know that cancer is a disease that really can be cured. I think for most of us the goal is management where we think about cancer like other chronic diseases. 50 years ago diabetes was a death sentence now it’s a chronic disease that's managed.”

The treatment of cancer as a chronic disease has become a trend recently within the cancer community – both at a research level and at a healthcare provider level – and is supported by immunotherapies, a new class of drugs that use the body’s own immune system to fight cancer.

“The best example of that is in melanoma with now two FDA approved drugs that target normal immune cells where once those immune cells are awakened to do their jobs to eradicate tumors patients with aggressive metastatic melanoma are now surviving 2 years, 5 years and the longest survivors at about 10 years,” Coussens said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

One scientist that has helped change the landscape for the treatment of cancer is molecular cell biologist Dr. Tony Hunter, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, who discovered a cellular process that has helped produce 26 approved drugs for cancer treatment.

"Were interested in how cancer cells differ from normal cells and in particular how the internal signaling pathways differ and how potentially one can exploit differences to develop new types of therapy,” Dr. Hunter said.

However the “war on cancer,” is far from over.

“Whatever treatment you devise, the cancer can usually find a way around that treatment because of this heterogeneity there are so many mutations within the cells of the cancer that probably one cell or group of cells that have a particular mutation can now escape the treatment, so that is the main challenge I think,” he said.

Additional reporting by Lindsay Carlton.Over the last five years, cancer research has seen the “greatest advances,” including a new approach to treating the complex disease as a “chronic disease,” instead of trying to cure it.

“We have seen the greatest advances in cancer medicine in the last five years with drugs targeting the immune system moving into the clinic and showing remarkable response rates with quite a few different malignancies,” Lisa Coussens, Ph.D., Chair of the Department of Cell, Developmental & Cancer Biology, said to Fox News at the American Association for Cancer Research annual conference.

However, the response rates do not indicate that medical doctors and scientists are getting closer to a cure – or if that is still the goal.

“With regards to a cure for that, it’s really not a realistic goal. I don’t know if cancer is a disease that can be cured. I think for most of us, the goal is management where we think about cancer like other chronic disease,” Dr. Coussens said. “50 years ago diabetes was a death sentence, now it is a chronic disease that is managed.”

“It’s been a big shift in the last 10 years with thinking about cancer in that way: instead of a cure, treat it like a chronic disease where you live with disease and live your life well with that disease. It’s a major shift, but a tremendous goal,” she added.

IMMUNE THERAPY SCORES BIG WIN AGAINST LUNG CANCER IN STUDY

According to the American Cancer Society, identifying certain types of cancer as a “chronic disease” was introduced around 2016.

“Cancer isn’t always a one-time event. Cancer can be closely watched and treated, but sometimes it never completely goes away. It can be a chronic (ongoing) illness, much like diabetes or heart disease,” the website says.

"There’s been a broad recognition, a broad awakening in the cancer community both at a research level and at a healthcare provider level where we all recognize ... that cancer can be treated as a chronic disease." - Lisa Coussens, Ph.D.

The goal of cancer treatment is to control the disease with treatment based on individual needs, and prevent it from growing or spreading, but treatment typically does not completely eradicate it.

“Sometimes when treatment shrinks the cancer, you can take a break until the cancer starts to grow again. But in either of these cases the cancer is still there – it doesn’t go away and stay away – it’s not cured,” the website states.

With new breakthroughs that are currently happening in cancer research and cancer medicine, Dr. Coussens says people may live better lives, while still having the disease. With the advancements, “patients with aggressive metastatic melanoma and are now surviving 2 years, 5 years, and the longest survivors are out about 10 years,” she said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

“There’s been a broad recognition, a broad awakening in the cancer community both at a research level and at a healthcare provider level where we all recognize or where the community is now recognizing that cancer can be treated as a chronic disease.”

While Dr. Coussens admits “not all patients respond, not all tumor types are as responsive” to the medicines and interventions administered, approaches that target the immune system will help reach the “end goal” Coussens mentioned: “impact[ing] the quality of life with patients with cancer and improve their outcomes.”Marketing firms may have abused a Facebook Login feature to secretly track users over the internet, according to new research.

The problem involves the "Login with Facebook" function, which—as its name suggests—lets you log into websites with your Facebook credentials rather than having to create separate accounts across the web.

However, researchers at Princeton University claim Facebook Login is susceptible to abuse. They detected online web trackers piggybacking on it to collect Facebook user IDs and email addresses.

"When a user grants a website access to their social media profile, they are not only trusting that website, but also third parties embedded on that site," the researchers said.

Tracking scripts we're found on over 400 websites, which were probably exploiting the Facebook Login feature to help businesses better monetize their users, researchers said.

However, the scale of the problem appears to be relatively small; a list of the affected domains does not contain many mainstream sites. For instance, the second most popular website on the list is an Indonesian newspaper that lets readers log in with their Facebook account.

Nevertheless, the findings underscore the potential for abuse. "This unintended exposure of Facebook data to third parties is not due to a bug in Facebook's Login feature," the researchers said. "Rather, it is due to the lack of security boundaries between the first-party and third-party scripts in today's web."

Facebook is investigating the findings. "Scraping Facebook user data is in direct violation of our policies," the company said in an email on Thursday.

"While we are investigating this issue, we have taken immediate action by suspending the ability to link unique user IDs for specific applications to individual Facebook profile pages, and are working to institute additional authentication and rate limiting for Facebook Login profile picture requests," the company added.

Facebook took action as the company is still reeling from the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which involved a UK political consultancy abusing Facebook practices to scoop up data on as many as 87 million users. In response, Facebook has promised a comprehensive developer audits and better privacy protections for users.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.Banking and finance sites have the greatest risk for getting hacked, a new report says.

The worst vulnerabilities were found in banking and finance web applications tested by Positive Technologies, a firm that provides Internet security products for businesses.

“Greater complexity results in more opportunities” for hackers, according to the Positive Technologies report, which said banking applications are some of the most complex.

FEDS: RUSSIAN CYBER SPIES EXPLOITING UNPATCHED ROUTERS

The hackers primary target is the average user. “The number-one threat is attacks that target web application users,” the report said. A whopping 87 percent of banking web applications tested by Positive Technologies were susceptible to these attacks.

Government app users are also big targets because they tend to be less security-savvy, making them easy victims, the said.

“We gained access to personal data of 20 percent of the applications that process user information, including bank and government websites,” the report added.

The most common vulnerability was Cross-Site Scripting, which allows attackers to perform phishing attacks, which can result in malware infection. In a phishing attack, the hacker sends, for instance, an email pretending to be a trusted entity like a bank or major shopping site, hoping to dupe you into clicking on the malicious link.

Denial of service (DOS) attacks – which block access to a web site or service – are common. In 75 percent of e-commerce web applications, there are vulnerabilities enabling DoS attacks, Positive Technologies said.



"Denial of service is especially threatening...High-profile e-commerce web applications receive large amounts of daily visits, increasing the motivation for attackers to find vulnerabilities to turn against users," the report said.

SENATE CRACKS DOWN ON ELECTION HACKING, PUSHES BILLS TO PROTECT THE VOTE



Employees are weak links

In separate report released earlier this month, Positive Technologies said employees are often the gateway for attacks.

An alarmingly high percentage of employees download malicious files, click phishing links, and even correspond with hackers, the report said.

Positive Technologies testers pretended to be hackers by sending emails to employees with links to websites or forms that required password entry, the report said. Of the 3,332 messages sent, 17 percent of these messages would have led to a compromise of the employee's computer, and possibly, the entire company.

The most effective method was to send an email with a phishing link. In that case, 27 percent of recipients clicked on the link. “Users often glance over or ignore the address, leaving them unaware that they are visiting a fake website,” the report said.There are more than 30,000 Alexa skills available, and they all have one thing in common: They weren't made by you. Amazon's Skill Blueprints looks to change that.

Amazon says the newly announced Skill Blueprints will make skill creation more accessible, by offering customers customizable templates they can use to make their own skills for the voice-powered Alexa assistant.

Starting today (April 19), Amazon is making available 20 skill blueprints across several categories: Home, Fun & Games, Storyteller, and Learning & Knowledge. Using those templates, Alexa users will be able to create a skill for their corniest jokes, a trivia game, or an interactive story, to name three examples.

To create a skill, go to blueprints.amazon.com, and select a template to get started. You can either use pre-filled content, or add your own. When you're finished, the skill will be available on all Alexa-enabled devices with your account; they won't be available to the general public.

Other examples of skills you can create include ones for helping a pet or baby sitter find things around your house; virtual flash cards to help you study; and a Bachelorette Party trivia game.

While there are a plethora of Alexa skills—humor, trivia, cooking, sports, productivity, smart home, and more—making it easier for consumers to create their own skills should help keep Amazon maintain its competitive advantage against Google Assistant and other challengers in the digital assistant space.Apple has been awarded a new patent that aims at optimizing your iPhone screen brightness for viewing content in dark environments.

The patent, called "Luminescence Shock Avoidance in Display Devices," describes how the iPhone can automatically adjust brightness and limit its effect in dark environments. The idea, according to the patent, which was earlier reported on by Digital Trends, is to "prevent the temporary vision impairment that can occur when a display device is activated in a dark environment."

Screen brightness and addressing how a screen acts at night is something several major tech companies are looking at as people increasingly bring their smartphones to bed at night to surf the Web, play games, and use social media. Having a bright light in your eyes in an otherwise dark room can cause some eye problems.

Apple has been among the more active companies in trying to solve the issue. The company has a Night Vision mode on its iPhone, for instance, that eliminates brightness and the blue light to reduce eye strain. A slew of Android-based handsets also come with blue light filters and other features, like ambient sensors, to reduce eye strain in the dark.

Apple's patent appears to be a more sophisticated attempt at trying to reduce problems at night. The technology uses an algorithm that, on the fly, can evaluate whether your iPhone display is on or in standby mode. It then analyzes your environment's brightness using an ambient sensor and based on that "lighting value," as Apple calls it, limits screen brightness to stop the "luminescence shock."

The patent also discusses stopping that shock even when there isn't an ambient sensor. And even if you receive a call or message, which would be a different function than simply turning your phone on from standby, the screen would limit brightness to reduce chances of eye problems.

While Apple was awarded the patent, there's no telling exactly what the company might do with it. Apple files for patents all the time. It's unknown whether this patented technology fill find its way to a future iPhone.Amazon for the first time has revealed how popular Amazon Prime is, saying the paid subscription service has attracted more than 100 million members worldwide.

The total subscriber count was revealed in a letter Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos sent to company shareholders on Wednesday.

"In 2017 Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year —both worldwide and in the U.S." he said in the letter.

Bezos didn't offer details to the membership growth, but his company has been expanding Amazon Prime to new countries including Mexico, Singapore and the Netherlands.

Members who subscribe to Amazon Prime receive the main perk of getting free two-day shipping on eligible Amazon.com purchases. In exchange, they pay a flat fee of $99 a year of $12.99 a month.

Amazon started the program 13 years ago when an engineer named Charlie Ward pitched the idea through a company employee-suggestion box. Since then, Amazon has introduced other perks, like free two-hour delivery on certain items and access to Prime Video, the company's own streaming service.

Amazon has remained mum on the exact subscriber accounts for years. However, in recent months analyst firms had estimated that Amazon Prime had managed to attract 80 million or 90 million members in the US.

Wednesday's letter to shareholders also mentioned that the company's smart speaker products have also been selling well. "2017 was our best year yet for hardware sales. Customers bought tens of millions of Echo devices," Bezos said.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.Kia is looking to kick butt and take names in the compact luxury sports sedan segment.

The problem is, there aren’t any names. Just lots of numbers and letters stuck onto trunk lids. Funny then that Kia’s entry has one. It’s called the Stinger.

I’ll leave the buzz jokes to you, but the Stinger’s sleek and muscular styling definitely gets a lot of attention. I lost count of how many times I heard the phrase “that’s a Kia?!” while I was driving it.

It is a Kia, but it’s not actually a sedan. It’s a stealth hatchback like the Audi A5. It’s also not a compact. It’s a little bigger, about halfway between the BMW 3-series and 5-Series. And at a starting price of $32,800, it’s thousands less than the former and of all the cars it competes against. Kia is coming at this hard with value.

The Stinger is a rear-wheel-drive car with optional all-wheel-drive. The base model comes with a 255 hp 2.0-liter turbocharged four-cylinder engine, while the step-up Stinger GT is powered by a 3.3-liter twin-turbocharged V6 with 365 hp for $39,250.

The fully-loaded one I tested topped out at $52,300, which is where the 5-Series starts. That gets you all-wheel-drive and goodies like adaptive cruise control, an active suspension system, head-up display, Nappa leather-upholstered ventilated seats with adjustable bolsters and LED mood lighting. I found red to be most appropriate.

The Stinger has a low roof, and you sit way down in it. From the driver’s seat it feels very much like a sports car. Above the knees, everything looks great and is trimmed in leather, soft-touch materials and metal. It’s plastic town down low, but if you’re going to save money somewhere, that’s the place to do it. Overall, it doesn’t disappoint at its price point.

Kia’s sister company Genesis uses the V6 in larger vehicles than the Stinger, so it’s plenty powerful for it. It seems a little louder in this application, possibly because the sound is electronically enhanced. There are even three volume settings for it, but I couldn’t tell the difference between them.

Drive modes -- Eco, Comfort, Sport, Smart and a configurable Custom setting – change the character of the car more noticeably, especially through the suspension, which cycles through a wide range of stiffness. The steering, throttle and eight-speed automatic transmission all adjust in sync.

The Stinger GT can accelerate to 60 mph in 4.7 seconds and hit a top speed of 167 mph, according to Kia. That sounds about right, and puts it right in the mix with the competition. At the more realistic speeds where you’ll spend most of your time, it’s an able handler that’s on par with the best of the Japanese cars it matches up against, but an nth degree below the much pricier Europeans. Its rear-biased all-wheel-drive system is resistant to understeer, but doesn’t turn it into a drifter.

It’s a pretty sublime cruiser. The noisy winter tires my test car was fitted with didn’t let me get a good fix on how quiet or not it really is, but I put in hours behind the wheel without complaints from any passengers or body parts. The cargo area is huge, and why anyone would rather have a trunk than a hatchback – at least on a car that looks as good as the Stinger – is beyond me. It’s just so much more functional in every way, and this one’s powered and will even open on its own if you stand next to it for a few seconds with the key on your person, so you don’t need to use your hands.

Throw in an epic 10-year/10,000-mile powertrain warranty, and 5/60 for the rest of the car and the Stinger is really an excellent deal. The only issue is the name.

Not Stinger, but Kia. There are a lot of brand snobs out there, and trying to get someone out of a BMW or a Mercedes-Benz into one of these could be a tough sell. The thing is, Kia doesn’t have to.

It has one of the highest brand loyalty ratings of any automaker, so all it has to do is keep a few of its upwardly mobile customers in the fray and the Stinger will be a success. Even better for it, the kids like it too.

At least one teenage New Jersey gas station attendant does, who was clearly star-struck by the car as he nervously asked me about it.

“That brand new?”

“Yep.”

“The GT?”

“It is.”

“Twin-turbo and everything?”

“It’s loaded.”

“Wow, thanks.”

Thanks?

Kia should be thanking you.

----------

2018 Kia Stinger GT

Base price: $39,250

As tested: $52,300

Type: 5-passenger, 4-door, all-wheel-drive sedan

Engine: 3.3-liter turbocharged V6

Power: 365 hp, 376 lb-ft

Transmission: 8-speed automatic

MPG: 19 city, 25 hwyThe green Ford Mustang from the film “Bullitt” is most famous for racing through the streets of San Francisco, but for the next few days it will be parked in the middle of Washington, D.C.

To celebrate the entry of the iconic movie car into the National Historic Vehicle Register of significant automobiles at the Library of Congress, the 1968 Mustang GT is being displayed in a transparent box on the National Mall through April 23.

The car fell out of the public eye for decades before it resurfaced at the Detroit Auto Show in January to help mark both the 50th anniversary of the Steve McQueen film and launch of a new Mustang GT Bullitt tribute model this year.

The car has been owned by the same family since 1974, but fell into disrepair over the years and was kept hidden away. As its legend grew, owner Sean Kiernan says they really weren’t sure how to deal with it. But after his father died a couple of years ago he set out to get the car back together and running again so he could share it with fans.

MYSTERY OF STEVE MCQUEEN'S MISSING 'BULLITT' MUSTANG FINALLY SOLVED

After the visit to Washington, Kiernan and the car will embark on a world tour of car shows and events. Just don’t expect to see it on the auction block.

Although it’s worth millions, Kiernan says he’ll never sell it because it means too much to him, but he’ll likely put it on display in a museum someday.

ARE YOU FOLLOWING FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK YET?President Trump isn’t the only world leader getting a new car this year. He might not even be the first.

Following an exclusive report from Fox News that the U.S. Secret Service will begin using a next-generation presidential limousine late this summer, Russia’s Industry and Trade Minister, Denis Manturov, told Russia Today that a new state car being developed for President Putin has passed its final crash test and could be on the road in a few weeks.

“The cars for trial will be delivered on time before the end of April,” he said. “I hope [the president] will start using this vehicle very soon,” Manturov said.

Unlike Trump’s limousine, which is a highly specialized vehicle that Cadillac will only build about a dozen of for the White House fleet, Putin’s car is part of a state run-project that’s developing a line of Russian-built cars and utility vehicles for the nation’s government officials that are meant to replace thousands of imports currently in use.

Putin’s will likely be a little more special than the rest, with a stretch body and either a V12 or V8 motor reportedly engineered with help from Porsche. Prototypes of the standard sedan have been spotted being tested wearing the same sort of black and white camouflage that’s used to conceal the design details of the Cadillacs from spying cameras before they make their official debuts painted black.

Manturov wouldn’t commit to the car being ready in time for the Russian presidential inauguration event on May 7, but that would give Putin some bragging rights over Trump, who’s been riding around the same vehicles the Obama White House used since he took office last year.

ARE YOU FOLLOWING FOX NEWS AUTOS ON FACEBOOK YET?For the first time ever, a Waffle House location in Georgia is adding a new, adults only item to their menu — beer.

Braves fans at SunTrust Park in Atlanta now have the opportunity to order a cold one, including Miller Lite or Coors Lite, at a Waffle House stand inside the stadium.

The alcoholic beverages became available Monday at the iconic restaurant chain's "World Famous Hashbrowns" stand — the second Waffle House location, albeit with a smaller menu, in Section 130 of the famed baseball stadium.

Fans are offered the opportunity to order Waffle House’s famous hashbrowns with cheesesteak, grilled chicken, or with a variety of topping options such as “chunked ham,” all, of course, with a side of beer.

The hashbrown stand is one of over 2,000 Waffle House locations in 25 states throughout U.S — one of around 400 in Georgia alone. "Many" highway exits in the Peach State even have two Waffle Houses, according to the chain.

Established in the mid-1950s, Waffle House boasts a wide menu of breakfast and lunch favorites. The restaurant told Fox News the cart featuring beer "is a one-off location for us," so fans looking to drink a beer with their Waffle House meal will just have to make the trek to SunTrust Park.

Fox News' Alex Quiles contributed to this report.Philadelphia’s police commissioner is apologizing to two black men who were arrested at a Starbucks in the city following backlash over the language he used in a previous statement.

"I’m here to discuss the unfortunate incident that has been in the news about this great city — an incident that I fully acknowledge that I played a significant role in making worse," said Commissioner Richard Ross at a press conference held Thursday. "For starters, I should have said the officers acted within the scope of the law, and not that they didn't do anything wrong,” he said.

STARBUCKS CLOSING 8,000 US STORES ON MAY 29 TO CONDUCT 'RACIAL BIAS TRAINING'

Immediately after the Starbucks incident, Commissioner Richard Ross had originally said the responding police officers “did absolutely nothing wrong” and were following “policy” in a Facebook video.

“The police did not just happen upon this event," he said in the original video. "They did not just walk into Starbucks to get a coffee … They were called there, for a service, and that service had to do with quelling a disturbance, a disturbance that had to do with trespassing."

Since his post, Ross, who is black, apologized for his previous choice of wording and for not being aware of the "Starbucks business model,” or the “well-known fact [that] people spend long hours at Starbucks and are not necessarily expected to make a purchase.”

"It is also reasonable to believe that the officers didn't know it either," he added.

Ross went on to say the department is enacting a new policy for officers to "deal with similar situations."

Ross added that he "failed miserably" in the messaging around the arrests. He says that the issue of race is not lost on him and he shouldn't be the person making things worse.

Mayor Jim Kenney of Philadelphia also released a lengthy statement on Twitter supporting Commissioner Ross' apology.

“Sometimes courage is as simple as a willingness to evaluate your own words and actions, and to account for them. Today we saw such courage with the words of Police Commissioner Richard Ross. I applaud his ability to reflect on this very difficult week, and to articular his changed perspective,” the statement read.

“The current realities of race relations and bias in 2018 warrant ongoing re-evaluations by each and every one of us,” Kenney continued.



Rashon Nelson and Donte Robinson were at a Starbucks in Philadelphia’s Rittenhouse Square location waiting for a business colleague when they were arrested for trespassing.

Video footage of the arrest went viral on social media prompting boycotts of Starbucks and galvanizing people around the country who saw the exchange as modern-day slavery.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Nelson and Robinson have met with the CEO of Starbucks and are pushing for meaningful change.

“We need a different type of action ... not words,” Robinson said. “It’s a time to pay attention and understand what’s really going on. We do want a seat at the table.”

Since the incident, Starbucks has promised to train employees about unconscious bias. The company later announced it would be closing 8,000 company-owned stores on the afternoon of May 29 to conduct "racial bias training."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.If handling raw meat in the kitchen gives you — or your favorite millennial — the heebie-jeebies, a new touch-free product may be the answer to your prayers.

On April 15, major British supermarket chain Sainsbury’s announced that they will roll out touch-free packaging on their store brand raw chicken in a few weeks so anxious cooks can avoid contact with the moist meat, The Sunday Times reports.

Sainsbury's was inspired to roll out the new offeirng after a focus group found that 37 percent of millennials reported that they “preferred not to handle raw meat” while they cooked their meals, according to the Telegraph.

PRINCE WILLIAM REVEALS NEW FAVORITE FAST FOOD CHAIN

“Customers, particularly younger ones, are quite scared of touching raw meat,” Katherine Hall, Sainsbury’s product development manager for meat, fish and poultry, told the Times. “These bags allow people, especially those who are time-poor, to just “rip and tip” the meat straight into the frying pan without touching it.”

Hall further divulged that she suspects Sainsbury’s young customers dislike handling the raw meat due to a “lack of education” on food safety or penchant for dining out, noting that they'd “prefer someone else” cook their meat for them.

TEXAS BAR REMOVES 'DISGUSTING' SIGN WITH RACIAL SLUR AFTER PATRONS COMPLAIN ON FACEBOOK

While this may be a savvy marketing tactic on Sainsbury’s part, one expert on the opposite side of the aisle is wary about the larger implications for such a product.

"We find it disconcerting that shoppers are so removed from their food that they have these concerns. But we are aware it is a growing trend — and a lot of the data suggests there are concerns about handling raw meat,” Ruth Mason, chief food chain adviser at the National Farmers’ Union, told the Times.

Unsurprisingly, the Twitterverse both championed and condemned the notion of the straight-to-pan product.

“So they are adding MORE plastic packaging when other retailers are trying to reduce? Crazy @sainsburys ! If you can't bear to touch raw meat you shouldn't be eating it,” one critic said.

“Wrong move @sainsburys 1. You are introducing more plastic when others are leading the way trying to reduce it. 2. What about the other 67 percent who have no problem with it?! Just use tongs or a fork!! #banplastic #reducereuse #boycott,” another detractor agreed.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Others, however, voiced their support.

“I’m 48 and no way am I touching raw meat. When seasoning etc will turn it round in the pot stirring all the seasonings in same with oil or anything. Tipping chicken out of packaging," one wrote.

For better or worse, the touch-free packaged chicken from Sainsbury’s will hit shelves on May 3.Pope Francis knows his bourbon.

Last week, Father Jim Sichko of Lexington, Ky., visited the Vatican for a private audience with Pope Francis, Food & Wine reports. The priest brought along a fitting gift from the Bluegrass state: a bottle of 23-year-old Pappy Van Winkle Bourbon.

TACO BELL FRANCHISE SUING WISCONSIN TOWN, MAYOR FOR DISCRIMINATION AFTER LIQUOR LICENSE DENIED

Father Sichko said that Pope Francis immediately spotted the quality product when he saw it.

“He knew I was from Kentucky, so when I handed it to him, he immediately said 'bourbon' and I said yes, and then he said, 'very good bourbon.’” Father Sichko told the Lexington Herald Leader.

According to Fortune, a 23-year-old bottle of the spirit retails for around $2,700.

MAN ASKS CLERK ABOUT STEALING BEER BEFORE STEALING BEER, GETS ARRESTED JUST LIKE SHE SAID

The 81-year-old Argentinian pope wasn’t the only one who got gifted that day, as Father Sichko brought more bottles to hand out for Pope Francis' security team.

“All the PAPPYS, 4 ROSES and WOODFORD RESERVE made it to give to Pope Francis and his security detail! Thanks Be to God!” he tweeted.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

This wouldn't be the first time that Pope Francis has happily accepted a bottle of whiskey. When Queen Elizabeth met the pope for the first time, she gave him a hamper of food with a bottle of the booze, ABC News reports.Nicole Kaspar has walked many runways during her career as a model, but she’ll certainly never forget her boyfriend popping the question in the midst of one very special fashion show.

Last weekend, the Texan-born beauty closed Wtoo by Watters’ Spring 2019 show during New York Bridal Fashion Week, and probably didn’t anticipate being surprised with the life-changing question by her boyfriend Chad Stapleton. Instructed to walk down the catwalk a second time under the premise that more photos needed to be taken of her dress, she found instead her partner of two years waiting.

TEEN TAKES MOM TO PROM BECAUSE SHE MISSED HER OWN

“Nicole, I’ve wanted to do this for a long time, and I wanted the moment to be as special as you are to me,” Stapleton says in the now-viral clip, Huffington Post reports. “And I figured, what better way to do this than on a runway, doing what you love.”

Stapleton launched into a speech about how much Kaspar means to him. Kaspar says yes when he formally asked for her hand in marriage, and the two embraced to the delight of the crowd.

“We met in Las Vegas through mutual friends," Kaspar told The Knot of meeting Stapleton, who works as a dentist. "My tooth had cracked and part of it fell out, and so at lunch they were asking Chad to look at it,” Kaspar told The Knot of their first meeting. “I was so embarrassed because he was so cute.”

STRANGER COMFORTS HYSTERICAL TODDLER ON FLIGHT, GOES VIRAL

“He wrote me on Instagram while I was living in Paris,” the bride-to-be further divulged, “and we went on our first date the day I came back. The rest is history.”

Flooded with well wishes and support in the days since, the lovebirds now look forward to tying the knot.

“All I can say is WOW!!! I’M ENGAGED to the love of my life. Thank you for making my every dream come true @thefittestdentist and I cannot wait to spend forever together. A very special thank you to @watters for helping Chad make this day so phenomenal,” the bride-to-be wrote on Instagram.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

And when her wedding day finally arrives, Kaspar says she’s sure she’ll sport a dress by Watters.

"I wouldn't be caught dead in anything else," she told Inside EditionRace car driver Danica Patrick is speeding towards the next chapter in life -- helping others live out their dreams.

Continue Reading Below

“There’re so many different things that already exist right now as businesses and other things I’m already thinking into and dreaming into, as I like to say,” Patrick told FOX Business’ Cheryl Casone. “I get this from my dad -- I’m a big dreamer.”

She has reunited with GoDaddy, a key sponsor early on in career as an IndyCar driver and through her transition to NASCAR, for her final two races -- the Daytona 500 -- which took place in February and the Indianapolis 500 in May -- dubbed as the “Danica Double.”

“So much of it has come full circle, you know, with the car, with the sponsorship, with the race itself -- everything,” she said.

After Indy, GoDaddy will help Patrick focus on transitioning into a business woman.

“Our brands are so similar -- like the way that we’ve grown up together with the way that our branding has gone,” she said. “And now they are all about helping small businesses and people that are dreaming, that have sort of side hustles or things that they love to do outside of their normal job and then helping people nurture that and through a website and various different things that help them make that their real job. That’s my life right now.”

Advertisement

And that’s not the finish line -- along with a winery, clothing line and book, Patrick is also interested in cooking and fitness.

Even though Patrick has only one IndyCar victory, she has several top-10 finishes, is the only woman to ever take a pole position in the Daytona 500 and has a very large fan base.

Her advice to the future generation of women is to envision your passion and not worry about what divides you from others.

“Dream as big as you possibly can and if you fall short then it’s probably still going to be pretty amazing,” she said.Carb lovers rejoice. An Italian diet that promotes eating pizza, pasta, chocolate and cookies as a means of losing weight has made its way to U.S. soil – all thanks to President Donald Trump’s tax cuts.

Continue Reading Below

“Trump is an emperor,” Gianluca Mech, founder of the Italiano Diet, which is known as the “Weight Watchers" of Europe,” told FOX Business’ Stuart Varney. “If you raise taxes, people go to other countries.”

And U.S. tax cuts are what prompted Mech to move his business to America from Italy.

“The American market is very attractive for foreign companies because you can gain much more if you compare the taxes we have in Italy – it’s crazy,” Mech said on “Varney & Co.”

Mech said his business would shell out roughly 50% of profits in Italy compared with 21% under the flat rate in the U.S. that Trump signed into law in December.

Advertisement

He said many Italian voters in the March 4 vote showed appreciation for Trump’s success in reducing taxes.

For now, Mech has a single distribution center in New York but expects to begin producing throughout the U.S. within a couple of years.A medicine made from the marijuana plant moved one step closer to U.S. approval Thursday after federal health advisers endorsed it for the treatment of severe seizures in children with epilepsy.

If the Food and Drug Administration follows the group's recommendation, GW Pharmaceuticals' syrup would become the first drug derived from the cannabis plant to win federal approval in the U.S.

The 13-member FDA panel voted unanimously in favor of the experimental medication made from a chemical found in cannabis — one that does not get users high. The panelists backed the drug based on three studies showing that it significantly reduced seizures in children with two rare forms of childhood epilepsy.

"This is clearly a breakthrough drug for an awful disease," said panel member Dr. John Mendelson, of the Friends Research Institute in Baltimore, Maryland.

CANADIAN NATUROPATH CLAIMS SHE GAVE 4-YEAR-OLD SALIVA FROM RABID DOG TO CURE BEHAVIORAL PROBLEMS

The drug carries a potential risk of liver damage, but panelists said doctors could monitor patients for any signs. More common side effects included diarrhea, vomiting, fatigue and sleep problems.

FDA regulators are due to make their decision by late June. Approval would technically limit the drug, called Epidiolex, to patients with hard-to-treat forms of epilepsy. But doctors would have the option to prescribe it for other uses and it could spur new pharmaceutical research and interest into other cannabis-based products.

More than two dozen states allow marijuana use for a variety of ailments, but the FDA has not approved it for any medical use. The FDA has approved synthetic versions of another cannabis ingredient for other medical purposes.

Several patients and parents at Thursday's meeting spoke about the benefits of Epidiolex. Sam Vogelstein, 16, said he experienced daily seizures — at times more than 100 per day— before enrolling in a study of the drug.

"I just went to South Africa for two weeks without my parents on a school trip," said Vogelstein, who lives in Berkeley, California. "I would not have been able to do that if I had not tried this medication."

It's not yet clear why the medicine reduces seizures.

GEORGIA NEWBORN'S ONLY HOPE IS HEART TRANSPLANT, DAD SAYS

Epidiolex is essentially a pharmaceutical-grade version of cannabidiol, or CBD oil, which some parents have used for years to treat children with epilepsy. CBD is one of more than 100 chemicals found in the cannabis plant and it doesn't contain THC, the ingredient that gives marijuana its mind-altering effect.

CBD oil is currently sold online and in specialty shops across the country, though its legal status remains murky. Most producers say their oil is made from hemp, a form of cannabis that contains little THC and can be legally farmed in a number of states for clothing, food and other uses.

It's unclear how FDA approval of a CBD drug would affect products already on the market. Executives for the British drugmaker GW Pharmaceuticals say their goal is to provide a more standardized, research-backed version.

"We're not looking to impact the availability of other products on the market," GW executive Steve Schultz said before the meeting. "Our goal is to provide an additional option for patients and physicians who desire a purified version of CBD for treatment of seizures."

The company declined to comment on the price of the drug before the approval decision. Wall Street analysts estimate it could cost more than $25,000 per year.The parents of a 2-month-old baby in Georgia are anxiously waiting for a heart transplant that could save their daughter’s life.

Avery, born on Feb. 23, has spent every day of her short life in the hospital, her father, Steven Moore of Augusta, told Fox News on Thursday.

The young girl has multiple ventricular septal defects, or numerous holes “in the wall separating the two lower chambers of the heart,” according to the American Heart Association. She has also been diagnosed with Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), more commonly known as an irregular heartbeat, and cardiomyopathy, a disease that makes it difficult for the organ to pump blood to the rest of the body.

Alison, Steven’s wife and Avery’s mother, carried Avery for 41-weeks. The couple was under the impression that their baby daughter was “perfectly healthy."

But the day after she was born, Avery turned blue. She was transferred to the Children’s Hospital in Augusta, where the family is from, then to Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta. Shorty after, Avery’s parents learned of their child’s severe heart conditions.

“It was a shock to us,” Steven, 35, said.

On Tuesday, Avery underwent a risky procedure to close the holes in her heart. The procedure, which typically takes two to four hours for older patients, took Avery’s doctors nearly seven hours to complete.

While the procedure was a success, it’s not a cure-all. Steven described it as a “bridge to get us to the transplant,” adding that it was a way to buy Avery more time.

According to the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, it can take months to years before a heart becomes available. And even then, not just any heart will do. According to the hospital, “an adult donor heart cannot be transplanted into an infant because the infant's chest is simply too small to accommodate the large organ. Children must wait for an appropriately sized organ to become available.”

Roughly 2,000 children under the age of 18 in the U.S. are on the national heart transplant list.

Alison, 31, and Steven have spent everyday in the hospital with Avery, hoping at the end of each day that the next will bring good news. But that much-anticipated call has not yet come.

In the meantime, the couple, who are celebrating their first marriage anniversary next month, “wake up, go to [Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta] and sit with her,” Steven said. “We want to make sure she knows that we’re there for her.”

“It’s pretty irrational, but we sit around [with the hope] that a heart with show up, and they won’t have to come and find us,” Steven added.

Unlike parents of healthy newborns, Steven and Alison rarely get to hold their daughter. And when they do, it’s only for a few minutes.

“When we hold her, we treasure that moment,” he said. “It makes the smaller stuff so much more important.”

The family hasn’t been back to their home in Augusta since Avery was born; Steven said family and friends have been taking care of their two dogs and other responsibilities.

The support the couple has received has been “overwhelming,” said Steven. Strangers have reached out to them with words of encouragement via Avery’s Facebook page, others have donated to their fundraiser. Steven said he and his wife have also “fallen in love” with the nurses at the hospital.

“They love her as much as we do,” he said.

But the most significant source of support the couple has found is from each other.

“It has brought us closer together as a married couple. When she [Alison] breaks down, I find myself being stronger in those moments,” he said, adding that his wife has done the same for him when it all becomes too much.

Steven and his wife acknowledge “what it would mean” for another family to give Avery their child’s heart. But when that day comes, “it’s an opportunity for their heart to live on through our daughter,” he said. “It would mean so much to us.”An Alabama man hasn’t let the fact that he has no legs get in the way of much, including his love for skateboarding and the sport of tennis. Rowdy Burton, who had his legs amputated as a 3-year-old said there’s even times when his friends forget that he doesn’t have legs.

“There hasn’t been anything that I just really, really wanted to do that I felt like I couldn’t do,” Burton, 30, told Barcroft TV. “Except one other thing – I did kind of want to be an astronaut, still do, still want to go into space before I die but they’re pretty strict about that peak physical condition.”

WOMAN BULLIED OVER BIRTHMARKS STRIPS DOWN FOR BODY POSITIVE CAMPAIGN

Burton was born with sacral agenesis syndrome, a congenital spine condition which affected the way his legs were growing. He said he had his legs amputated because allowing them to grow would mean he had “dead weight to carry around.”

“Since they didn’t bend right either it would’ve been difficult to use a wheelchair or crutches,” he told Barcroft TV.

Burton said he was bullied earlier in life, but when he reached high school his classmates matured and it stopped. He also grew out of using his wheelchair for everything, and often walks around using his hands.

“Sometimes I use a skateboard,” he said. “You get a lot more momentum. I like it because you can go fast. I can’t really run very fast so it’s pretty cool to pick up speed.”

Burton also drives and plays wheelchair tennis with a group.

“People are drawn to him,” Christy Rue, who met Rowdy through wheelchair tennis, told the news outlet. “I remember before I met him our mutual friend told me he’s one of those people that just everybody loves immediately and, he is.”An E. coli outbreak involving romaine lettuce from Arizona has sickened 53 people across 16 states, with 31 patients requiring hospitalization. While no deaths related to the outbreak have been reported, five patients have suffered from kidney failure.

“Consumers anywhere in the United States who have store-bought chopped romaine lettuce at home, including salads and salad mixes, should not eat it and should throw it away, even if some of it was eaten and no one has gotten sick,” The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said. “If you do not know if the lettuce is romaine, do not eat it and throw it away.

WHY DID THE WHITE'S OF THIS MAN'S EYES TURN BLUE?

The outbreak has been traced to the Yuma, Ariz., growing region, but has not been pinned to a specific supplier or distributor. Several retailers have issued recalls related to the outbreak, including Sam’s Club, Schnucks, Fresh Foods Manufacturing Co. and Giant Eagle. Pennsylvania appears to have the highest number of illnesses, but cases have also been reported in Alaska, Arizona, California, Connecticut, Illinois, Louisiana, Michigan, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Virginia and Washington.

The CDC is also advising restaurants and retailers to stop selling or serving chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma region.

“Before purchasing romaine lettuce at a grocery store or eating it at a restaurant, confirm with the store or restaurant that is not chopped romaine lettuce from the Yuma Arizona growing region. If you cannot confirm the source of the romaine lettuce, do not buy it or eat it,” the CDC said.

Symptoms of E. coli can present as diarrhea, severe stomach cramps and vomiting. It can take up to 3 to 4 days for symptoms to appear, meaning more cases may be forthcoming.A condemned home in Northern California — with holes in the roof and mildew inside — recently sold for $1.23 million, becoming the latest example of the Bay Area's tight housing market.

The home in Fremont was originally listed for $1 million but ended up closing at $230,000 over its asking price, listing agent Larry Gallegos told KTVU.

SILICON VALLEY PROPERTY FEATURING BURNED HOME SELLING FOR $800G

“We had a couple of offers that were very close. Actually, my client, when I first met them, wanted a little bit more than that with the price they had in their mind. But they ended up being happy with this one,” he said.

The home, located about 35 miles southeast of San Francisco, has three bedrooms, two bathrooms, and was condemned in 2013. The two investors who bought the property design green homes, according to Gallegos, and plan to put a 4,000 square-foot "masterpiece" on the lot in Fremont.

Gallegos told the Associated Press the buyers didn't even enter the house because they had no interest in the actual building but on its location, which could offer a view of the bay from a second story.

Online property records show its assessment is years out of date — its taxable value is listed as $90,000.

BEACH HOUSE FORMERLY OWNED BY BERNIE MADOFF SELLING FOR $21 MILLION

David Stark of the Bay East Association of Realtors told KTVU there was "nothing surprising" about the sale.

"It’s a great example of location, location, location," he said.

Stark told the television station that buying a tear-down to build a dream home reflects a 10-year trend, and that unlike in 2008, current home prices show no indication a crash is coming.

“People are purchasing homes. They’re purchasing vacant properties like this. The demand is there. The supply isn’t. These prices are sustainable,” he told KTVU.

The median home price in Fremont, which connects to Silicon Valley through several highways and with easy access to San Francisco and Oakland by train, is $1 million as of late February, according to Zillow.com, compared to $1.3 million in San Francisco and $1.28 million in Berkeley.

For residents that have been in the neighborhood for years, the spike in home prices leaves them in a difficult situation.

CALIFORNIA HOUSING CRISIS AFFECTING MIDDLE CLASS THE MOST: IT'S 'A BROKEN SYSTEM'

Yvonne Yen, who has lived next to the home for 12 years, told KTVU she bought her home for $750,000 but is now finding herself priced out.

“We trying to move, because the property tax is costing me a thousand dollars a month, but we have no place to move,” she said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The Kardashians are closing up shop.

“After nearly 12 years, my sisters and I have decided to close the doors of our Dash stores,” Kim Kardashian announced on her app Thursday. “We’ve loved running Dash, but in the last few years we’ve all grown so much individually. We’ve been busy running our own brands, as well as being moms and balancing work with our families. We know in our hearts that it’s time to move on.”

The original Dash clothing store opened in Calabasas, Calif., in 2006 before moving to West Hollywood and expanding to Miami and New York. In 2015, E! released “Dash Dolls,” a spin-off show that followed a group of employees of the retail boutique.

The statement continues, “We love our Dash Dolls and are so grateful for the amazing memories—and we have to give a special thanks to the Dash employees and all of the incredible fans and customers who have supported us throughout the years! We couldn’t have done it without you. Thank you to everyone!”

The New York location closed its doors in December 2016.

In a 2017 episode of “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” Kourtney, Kim and Khloé were divided over what to do with the remaining two Dash stores.

This article originally appeared in Page Six.20th Century Fox released the final trailer for “Deadpool 2,” the follow up to the massively successful 2016 R-rated comic book film. In it, fans are given a brief rundown of the mutant heroes that will help the Merc with a Mouth take on his newest villain.

Previous trailers have revealed brief glimpses at what comic book fans recognize as the film’s adaptation of the X-Force. In the latest trailer, Deadpool himself calls on powered friends for help stopping a new threat, Cable, from capturing a young mutant with extraordinary powers.

First up, fans were introduced to Terry Crews’ Bedlam. According to The Hollywood Reporter, his comic book counterpart has the ability to disrupt electrical systems, allowing him to put his enemies to sleep or cause them pain without even touching them. However, given the character’s size and the really hard punch he delivers someone in the trailer, he may not need those powers so much.

Fans also get their first look at Shatterstar, who in the comics is an alien time traveler with a propensity to fight with swords in the most expert of fashions. Additionally, fans got a much better look at Zazie Beetz as Domino in action. The character’s mutant power is simply superior luck, which Deadpool argues isn’t a power. However, seeing brief clips of her battling it out with Cable and other baddies makes it clear that there’s more to her rabbit's-foot-like powers than meet the eye.

The trailers don’t offer much in the way of plot, but it seems like Deadpool will encounter the time-traveling Cable who is bent on killing a young boy. Not being one to let innocent people get hurt, the anti-hero takes up arms against Cable, who he cheekily refers to as Thanos from the Marvel Cinematic Universe of which Deadpool isn’t included.

“Deadpool 2” hits theaters May 18.

[Warning: this video contains graphic language and images.]The “Roseanne” reboot has been a triumphant success for ABC, but viewers shouldn’t expect one particular ‘70s classic to make a comeback anytime soon.

When Michael Learned, who starred as beloved matriarch Olivia Walton in “The Waltons,” was asked by Closer Weekly Wednesday if audiences could expect a relaunch in the future, she wasn’t exactly enthusiastic.

“’Roseanne’ is fabulous but… I’m old,” said the 79-year-old.

“The Waltons,” a TV drama about a Depression-era family living in Virginia’s rural Blue Ridge Mountains, aired from 1972 until 1981.

Still, Learned shared that she and her former cast mates have remained incredibly close over the years.

“We get together and have the best time,” she told the magazine. “I had drama in my personal life, but as a working family we were great friends – and we’re family now.”

Back in 2017, Learned admitted to Fox News she has regretted leaving “The Waltons” in 1979 before the show came to an end.

“Yes, there’s been times when I’ve regretted it only in that it probably would have been better to complete the whole show. But frankly, when John-Boy came back with a new face and a new voice, it was like something happened.

"I just couldn’t do it anymore… and also, I felt a lot of the times I was sitting around for 14 hours saying, ‘More coffee John.’ The fact is, I was bored. And I thought I had enough money, which wasn’t true.”

Learned had also shared she was appearing on a web series titled “Life Interrupted,” which also starred Alison Arngrim and Dawn Wells.

“It’s what I do,” said Learned on what keeps her acting. “When I’m not working professionally, I’m home cleaning the kitchen and that’s so boring. I’ve been doing that since I was 17. I always can’t wait to go to work and get out of the house!

"What am I going to do? Sit around and clean the refrigerator? That is even more boring than pouring coffee on Waltons mountain… I try to have fun now. I’m old and I don’t want to do anything that’s going to make me unhappy.”

As for “Roseanne,” the reboot has proven to be a major success for its star, actress Roseanne Barr. According to delayed ratings obtained by Variety, the reboot earned an additional 8.8 million viewers, bringing the two-part premiere’s total to 27.3 million viewers in Live+7 in delayed ratings.

A post shared by Roseanne Barr (@officialroseannebarr) on Mar 13, 2018 at 11:36am PDT

Those numbers are record-setting for a seven-day bump for any series, Variety reported. The previous title holder was “The Good Doctor,” which premiered in September.

The show’s revival proved that the Conners are not immune to the changing political times. The show, starring a pro-Trump title character, drew plenty of audiences when it premiered on March 27.

Barr revealed to reporters back in January it was important to showcase her character as a pro-Trump American.

“It’s just realistic,” said the 65-year-old. “I have always… attempted to portray a realistic portrait of the American people and working class people. And, in fact, it was working class people that elected Trump so I felt that was very real and something that needed to be discussed.”The average American utters their first curse word of the day at 10:54 a.m., according to new data.

A study into the everyday stress and frustration of 2,000 Americans aimed to explore how much stress Americans take on, and how exactly they deal with it.

Having a bad day? You might be one of the one in four Americans who can’t get past 9 a.m. without cursing most days, while the majority of respondents swear before 11 a.m.

Perhaps the number of potty mouths isn’t too surprising, considering that cursing is the most common way to express stress and frustration, according to the results of the study.

CHILD-SHAMING TREND HAS PARENTS PUNISHING KIDS ON SOCIAL MEDIA

The new survey, conducted by 9Round Kickbox Fitness, found financial worry to be the biggest cause of stress and frustration among Americans (56 percent), followed by such time-honored stress-contributors like not getting enough sleep (36 percent), health concerns (35 percent), and work (30 percent).

But some Americans are stressed and frustrated about things that one might not expect.

For instance, one in ten (9 percent) listed the environment as a source of stress and frustration for them, and 4 percent actually said the national deficit stresses them out. Three percent even said they’ve been stressed about the national deficit within the past week.

The bar is low, as even something as mundane as slow WiFi is enough to send 52 percent of Americans into a tizzy of frustration.

Stress is an inescapable part of life it seems, with the average American experiencing 1,205 stressful events every year, according to the results. Fifty-seven percent of Americans even believe their life is just always going to be stressful.

WOMAN DUMPS FAT-SHAMING BOYFRIEND WHO SAID SHE HAD A 'BEER GUT'

As mentioned above, cursing is the most popular way people express their frustration, with 63 percent saying that’s how it manifests for them most frequently. Yelling is another popular method of relief (49 percent), and, sadly enough, crying (39 percent).

So, with stressful events piling up in the thousands every year, how do we cope with it?

Listening to music is the most popular way of dealing (50 percent), followed by watching TV/movies (47 percent), and physical exercise (40 percent).

“People of all ages face stress every day and it can be difficult to find effective and healthy ways to cope,” said Shannon Hudson, CEO and founder of 9Round Kickbox Fitness. “While listening to music or watching TV can be relaxing, one of the best ways to reduce tension is through regular exercise because it improves both physical health and overall well-being. When you are physically and mentally strong, you are better equipped to handle life’s frustrations.”

Forty-seven percent of Americans reported that they’ve worked out after a long, stressful, frustrating day, and of those that have, nine in ten report it helped them feel less stressed.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Physical exercise has many benefits, both mental and physical. Sixty-four percent of the 2,000 respondents said that physically working out actually helps them think more clearly.

But free time does not come easy for many Americans, as half (49 percent) say they don’t have enough time in the day to do everything they want, or even need. So it’s no surprise that exercise can take a backseat, with one in four saying they don’t workout regularly because they simply don’t have time.Despite renewed concerns about a sharply rising deficit in the U.S. after the Congressional Budget Office reported it could surpass $1 trillion by 2020, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin remained adamant the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act would pay for itself over a 10-year period.

Continue Reading Below

“When we say the tax cuts pay for themselves, that’s looking at what would the government revenue be before and after tax cuts?” Mnuchin told FOX Business’ Liz Claman during an interview on Thursday. “That has nothing to do with spending. We started with a deficit before we had the tax cuts, we’re now spending more money that will create a bigger deficit. That’s a spending issue, not a revenue issue.”

The CBO projected the federal deficit would hit $804 billion in fiscal 2018, a 21% increase from 2017. But to calculate that number, the CBO assumed GDP growth would be at 2%, Mnuchin said, while the Trump administration is anticipating a more-robust rate of growth at 3%.

That’s in large part to Republicans’ tax overhaul legislation, the biggest since the era of Ronald Reagan, which slashed the corporate tax rate to 21% from 35% in order to incentivize American companies to invest. And while Mnuchin said he anticipates revenue to drop in the short-term -- the tax cuts also temporarily lowered individual taxes until 2025 -- he viewed it as an “investment in the economy” that would be bolstered by corporate growth.

“We’d 100% stand by what we did,” Mnuchin said. “That’s what’s going to create the economic growth. This is the most important issue for creating economic growth in the united states. I think our debt to GDP is very sustainable.”Casino giant Wynn Resorts appointed three members to its board of directors – all of whom are female.

Continue Reading Below

The company announced Wednesday that it would expand its board to 11 members, adding Betsy Atkins – a three-time CEO and serial entrepreneur – Dee Dee Myers – a White House press secretary during the Clinton administration — and author Wendy Webb, as independent directors. Wynn Resorts boasted that women now make up 36% of the board, pushing the company into the top 40 of S&P 500 companies in terms of female board representation.

The conscious efforts to “diversify the gender, skills and experience” of its board members comes after the company’s founder, Steve Wynn, was accused of sexual misconduct. Wynn resigned as chairman and CEO of the company in early February, though he has denied any wrongdoing.

As a result of the allegations – first reported by The Wall Street Journal – shareholders filed a lawsuit against board members for a breach of fiduciary duties.

"These appointments signify a turning point for us, and I look forward to working with each of our new directors as we usher in a new era at Wynn," Matt Maddox, CEO of Wynn Resorts, said in a statement.

Wynn Resorts revealed that the company is conducting an independent third-party investigation into its awareness and response to the claims against Steve Wynn.

Advertisement

Earlier this week, Steve Wynn resolved a longstanding fight with his ex-wife, Elaine Wynn, over claims that he violated the terms of their shareholders’ agreement. The battle, which had been ongoing for six years, involved claims that Elaine Wynn had been wrongfully removed from the company’s board of directors.

Wynn Resorts revealed that Steve Wynn paid Elaine Wynn a $25 million settlement.

Late last month, the casino mogul sold his remaining shares in Wynn Resorts, netting him more than $2.1 billion. He owned a 12% stake in the company, which he founded.

Elaine Wynn is now the company’s largest shareholder, owning a stake worth more than 9%.At 56, Heisman Trophy winner Herschel Walker says he still trains as if he is playing in the NFL despite being retired from pro football for 20 years.

Continue Reading Below

“I like to be known as a person who can compete,” Walker tells FOX Business. “I’ve been at the top of the world at everything I do. So I don’t just go out to be a part of something, I go to take over.”

The former running back has morphed from football player to mixed martial arts fighter to poultry producer after retiring from the Dallas Cowboys in 1997. He credits a strict diet of one meal a day and a regular workout that include 2,000 sit-ups and push-ups as keys to his success.

“People always talk to me about my workout, and I always say that my workout came from reading books,” Walker says. “Particularly, reading about a Marine who did all these push-ups and sit-ups and really dedicated himself. And that’s what I try to encourage kids to do.”

The former two-time Pro Bowler says a lot of people don’t realize that a successful person dedicates oneself and never gives up.

“You've got to sacrifice for whatever you want in life,” he says. “Even in business, you have to sacrifice because it’s not going to be easy. Whatever you want, a thousand other people want. So that means if they get up at 6 a.m. in the morning, you’ve got to get up at 5 a.m., and if they get up at 5 a.m., you get up at 4 a.m., or just don’t go to sleep.”

Advertisement

Walker says that philosophy is solely for the ones “who want it,” but adds that it’s OK to not want those things.

“The first thing people talk to me about is my age,” Walker says. “Age is really just a number, but people like to use it as an excuse, and that is really sad.”Walker adds that there is still so much left for him to accomplish, including competing in another mixed martial arts fight down the road.

“I want to do one more fight,” he says. “I love competition, and I’m still able to do it. I can still win. And people are shocked that I can still do it.”article

Miguel Diaz-Canel will inherit a struggling economy when Cuban President Raul Castro transfers power to his handpicked successor on Thursday, and it’s highly unlikely that the longtime Communist Party loyalist will enact sweeping reforms to the largely state-run system.

Continue Reading Below

Diaz-Canel, the 57-year-old vice president of Cuba, is set to assume the presidency a day after members of Cuba’s national assembly named him the sole candidate to succeed a dynasty that began when Fidel Castro seized power in 1959. The transition of power is unfolding amid long-term economic turmoil for the island nation.

While Diaz-Canel’s relative youth, civilian background and advocacy for reforms such as internet access for Cuban civilians have stoked optimism about an economic policy shift, multiple experts on Cuba told FOX Business that the life-long Communist Party member is unlikely to buck the system – especially with Raul Castro installed as head of Cuba’s only political party through 2021.

“Miguel Diaz-Canel Bermudez is a long-time party activist, conservative and not one to argue for a market opening,” said Riordan Roett, a political scientist and director of Johns Hopkins University’s Latin American studies program. “Diaz-Canel is sort of a caretaker for the Castro legacy, and only after Raul is no longer able to influence policy will Diaz-Canel – possibly – be able to take the country in a different direction.”

Minor reforms enacted during Raul Castro’s presidency have done little to jumpstart foreign investment or bolster average state worker wages of just $31 per month, according to the Associated Press. The government remains wary of private industry and opted to stop issuing licenses for private businesses in 2017. Cuba is contending with a complicated dual currency system, troubled relations with the U.S. government under President Donald Trump and the economic freefall of its key trade partner, Venezuela.

Cuba’s economic growth has all but stalled because of negative factors including the U.S. trade embargo that has remained in place since the early days of the Cold War. While Cuban officials said their economy grew by 1.6% in 2017 after a downturn in prior year, independent economists are skeptical of that claim.

Advertisement

More on Cuba's new president Miguel Díaz-Canel: Cuba’s next leader not a Castro?

Cuba’s gross domestic product (GDP) per capita is smaller today than it was in 1985, when Cuba was supported by the Soviet Union, Reuters reported, citing a study. The country is largely reliant on imports to feed its population.

"The [Communist Party of Cuba] confronts a situation where most Cubans and many party members no longer believe their system works, but the party fears that dismantling the economic structure could cause the whole system to collapse,” John Caulfield, the former chief of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana, told FOX Business.

Cuba’s tourism industry has boomed since President Barack Obama re-established diplomatic ties with the country and unwound some barriers to business in 2015; the total of international visitors more than doubled, according to the AP.

But relations have once again grown frosty since Trump re-tightened elements of the embargo last November. Trump ordered most U.S. diplomats to leave Cuba in response to a mysterious incident that left American embassy workers with neurologic damage, including hearing loss. Cuba has denied responsibility.

China, which the Trump administration recently targeted with a series of tariffs, has emerged as a key investor on Cuba. The Chinese government earmarked $36 million earlier this year to modernize elements of Cuba’s infrastructure, while the island’s famous cigars have become a sought-after product in China, USA Today reported.

With Castro still in control of the political landscape and longtime Communist party hardliners still populating key government positions, economic reforms are expected to unfold at a slow and uneven pace. Any significant changes to economic structure, such as a rollback in restrictions on private industry, could stoke social tensions and destabilize the government’s hold on the island.

“Diaz-Canel has not shown any signs of being a radical reformer of the Cuban economy, or of the political model for that matter,” said Pedro Freyre, international practice chair at the law firm of Akerman LLP and an expert on Cuban economic policy. “To the contrary, his public statements have reaffirmed the traditional party line. [But] Cuba is in dire need of significant economic reform to let loose entrepreneurial drive, energize agriculture and make Cuba an attractive site for investments and business development.”

The end of the Castro dynasty offers a rare opportunity for a fresh start between Cuba and the U.S., Freyre added.

“If it is possible for the United States to reach out and negotiate with North Korea, Cuba should be considerably easier,” he said.Amazon’s Prime subscription service has exceeded 100 million paid members worldwide, CEO Jeff Bezos revealed for the first time on Wednesday.

Continue Reading Below

Bezos and the e-commerce giant he founded have traditionally kept the number of Prime subscribers under wraps. Recent estimates suggested that Amazon has about 90 million U.S. Prime members, who pay $99 a year for free two-day shipping, video streaming and other perks.

“In 2017, Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year – both worldwide and in the U.S.,” Bezos wrote in his annual letter to shareholders.

Amazon shares rose 1.5% in after-hours trading.Chinese tech company ZTE said Friday it wouldn't accept an "unfair" U.S. penalty in a case involving exports of telecoms equipment to North Korea and Iran, and is seeking a solution through legal channels.

The Commerce Department on Monday barred the state-owned company from importing American components for seven years after concluding the company paid bonuses to employees involved in the export scheme instead of disciplining them as promised in 2017.

In a statement issued Friday, the company outlined actions it's taken over the last two years to investigate and rectify matters but said the Commerce Department had acted before the company had time to conclude that process.

"Prior to the wrapping up of that process, the Bureau of Industry and Security imposed the most severe sanction against the company. That is extremely unfair toward ZTE and we cannot accept it," the statement said.

The penalty "not only threatens ZTE's existence but also harms the interests of ZTE's business partner, including a large number of U.S. companies," it said.

Despite the U.S. government's action, ZTE would not give up on seeking a solution and was confident that through "all methods allowed under the law" it could preserve the rights of the company, its worker and customers, the statement said.

ZTE pleaded guilty in March 2017 and agreed to pay a $1.19 billion penalty for shipping the equipment to Iran and North Korea in violation of U.S. regulations.A woman suspected of killing her husband in Minnesota and a woman in Florida was captured Thursday night at a South Texas resort.

Two federal deputy marshals arrested Lois Riess, 56, about 8:30 p.m. at a South Padre Island, Texas, restaurant, the U.S. Marshals Service said in a statement. South Padre Island is a beach resort community 27 miles (43 kilometers) from the crossing into Mexico.

Riess had been on the run since at least late March when her husband, 54-year-old David Riess, was found fatally shot at their home in Blooming Prairie, Minnesota. She became the subject of a nationwide hunt.

She had been seen on March 23 at a convenience store and casino in northern Iowa. Authorities released video showing Riess approaching the store cashier, buying a sandwich and asking for directions south of the state. The store is next to a casino where authorities say Riess spent the day gambling before stopping at the gas station.

It was also on March 23 that David Riess's business partner called authorities to ask them to check on him. The partner said no one at work had seen David Riess in more than two weeks. Authorities found David Riess's body inside his home with multiple gunshots.

They were not able to determine how long he had been dead and could not find his wife. They learned Lois Riess may have been at the casino in Iowa, but she wasn't there when they went looking for her.

From there she was believed to be in Florida. That's where investigators allege she killed 59-year-old Pamela Hutchinson of Bradenton, Florida.

Authorities were called to an area of Fort Myers Beach on April 9 and found Hutchinson dead, with gunshot wounds.

Investigators believe Riess used the same gun that killed her husband to fatally shoot Hutchinson. They believe she killed Hutchinson to assume her identity.

Surveillance video showed Riess smiling and talking with Hutchinson on April 5 at a brewery in Fort Myers Beach. Authorities say she may have targeted Hutchinson because the two women looked alike.

Hutchinson had moved to Florida last year from Virginia Beach, Virginia.A homeless man dressed only in American flag shorts was arrested Thursday after allegedly stealing a truck full of beer and leading police on a highway chase, authorities in Northern California say.

Police later identified the suspect as Matt Hermsmeyer, 46. He was charged with suspicion of vehicle theft, possession of stolen property, priors for auto theft, resisting arrest and violation of his probation.

A Coors truck driver was making a delivery at a Santa Rosa liquor store when a customer entered the store and told the driver that a man had climbed into his parked truck and driven away, a police report said.

The customer described the suspect as an apparent homeless man dressed only in red, white and blue shorts.

A GPS system inside the truck gave police the suspect's location “within minutes,” according to the report.

Santa Rosa police officers, including a K-9 officer and his partner, and a Henry-1 helicopter unit from the Sonoma County Sheriff’s Department were dispatched to the scene where witnesses reported seeing the suspect on foot after having apparently abandoned the truck.

Video captured by Fox 2 in the San Francisco Bay Area showed the suspect running across Highway 101 in Santa Rosa, jumping the divider and fleeing into brush along the road, his star-spangled shorts still waving.

The suspect was caught within an hour of the truck’s theft as he hid in the bushes, the report said.At the New York City convenience store where he works the overnight shift, Radad Alborati takes a sip of coffee and surveys his life.

His wife is stuck in war-torn Yemen after his yearslong effort to bring her to the U.S. ended last month with a few phrases on a letter from an embassy.

"Ineligible for a visa" due to President Donald Trump's restrictions on immigration and travel from certain countries. "A waiver will not be granted."

"Today's decision cannot be appealed."

As the U.S. Supreme Court prepares to hear arguments next week on Trump's travel ban, its effects are playing out for Alborati and others from Manhattan to Minnesota to the Middle East. Whatever the outcome of the legal debate between an administration that says the policy is a national security necessity and challengers who say it's discriminatory, it is already shaping lives and plans.

NEW YORK AND SANAA, YEMEN

Alborati got visas for his and his wife's three sons last fall, while the travel ban was temporarily blocked by a court. He was relieved to be able to bring the boys, ages 10 through 16, to New York. But they're not living with him or one another. They're bunking with three separate sets of family friends because he doesn't want to leave them home alone during his midnight-to-noon workdays.

The savings he had hoped to put toward buying the family a house in New Jersey are gone. They were swallowed by costs of getting the family to visa interviews in Djibouti — the U.S. embassy in Yemen closed because of the war — and staying there during a five-month wait for his wife's denial, he said.

"I never felt like that's the America I was dreaming about," says Alborati, 38, who followed an older brother to the U.S. at 15 and became a citizen in 2010.

He applied two years later to bring his wife, whom he has known since childhood, and the family they built during his visits to Yemen.

"I get that you want to make the country safer — not that way," he says. "Separating families, that's sick."

With the visa denial, Alborati went back to New York to provide for the children. His wife, 33, returned to a country where three years of fighting between rebels and a Saudi-led coalition, backing an internationally recognized government, have killed over 10,000 people.

On twice-daily phone calls, he hears the fear in her voice. He worries, tries to keep his sons' spirits up and hopes the Supreme Court will give his family another chance to be together.

"This is my real life. That's what I'm fighting for," Alborati says, holding a photo of him and his sons. "This country is built on family. And this is my family."

WASHINGTON

Trump was clear about the ban's goal when he issued its first version: to "keep radical Islamic terrorists out."

"We only want to admit those into our country who will support our country and love deeply our people," the Republican president added as he signed the order days after his January 2017 inauguration.

The initial ban was temporary and evolved, amid court challenges, into the prohibition that is now in place at least until the Supreme Court rules.

The measure bars various categories of travelers and immigrants from Iran, Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Syria and Yemen, plus some Venezuelan officials. Trump's proclamation says countries were listed because they don't share enough information to vet travelers properly.

The State Department, which won't discuss any individual cases, says the policy aims to encourage foreign governments to share information and protect the U.S. until they do. Chad was taken off the list this month.

"The restrictions imposed by the president were carefully considered," the department said in a statement this month to The Associated Press.

However much consideration was given, families and others separated by the ban are struggling, in places near and far.

TIBURON, CALIFORNIA, AND TEHRAN, IRAN

Fresh from finishing his master's degree in filmmaking in San Francisco, Payam Jafari wanted to celebrate his accomplishment and his 26th birthday last August with his family back home in Iran. But he didn't make the trip.

His student visa allowed him to come and go. But Jafari remembered how the initial ban — which for a time barred even people with prior permission to come to the U.S. — came suddenly while he was in Iran for winter break in January 2017 and almost derailed his return for his final semester at the Academy of Art University in San Francisco.

Since then, he has felt like he can't take a chance on going home, lest the rules abruptly change again.

"I cannot risk it, although I want to see my family so bad," he says. "I'm in the middle of my project I spent five years of my life on."

As Jafari raises funds to make his first feature film, he and his relatives in Tehran aren't sure when they'll see one another next. Their uncertainty about U.S. travel policy weighs on his mom, Mehrnoosh: "Waiting for what will happen in the end — this is very difficult for a mother," she said by email.

Adds his sister, Parastoo, "Politics treats everyone in the world's lives like toys. We all get burned in the end by it."

WASHINGTON

The travel ban debate has been stoked by Trump's campaign-trail call for a "total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States."

While the ban now cites concerns about security screening, not religion, its impact falls mainly on Muslim-majority countries. Challengers, led by the state of Hawaii, say it amounts to illegal religious and nationality-based discrimination.

But James Carafano, a national security expert at the conservative Heritage Foundation and a Trump transition team member, says the policy was driven by concerns about visa vetting and the possibility that Islamic State fighters could stream out of the militants' shrinking territory and aim for the U.S.

"There was a credible, emergent threat," he said, and "we have a risk-informed process: What do we need to do to protect the nation, and what do we need to do to help people who need help, and what is the balance? We do the best we can."

CINCINNATI AND PARIS

The video projected in a Cincinnati theater showed three Syrian dancers in a piece inspired by the lives of their fellow citizens amid the civil war that has ravaged their homeland. But onstage, only two dancers performed the piece in its U.S. premiere on a January night.

The third hadn't been allowed into the country.

A week earlier, it wasn't clear the show would go on at all. The Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati and New York-based immigration lawyer Matthew Covey were scrambling to seek a travel ban waiver for Syrian choreographer Mithkal Alzghair and two fellow dancers to perform his "Displacement."

The ban allows for case-by-case waivers, and they have been relatively scarce. Over 8,400 people sought to travel from the listed countries in the first month after the latest version took effect Dec. 8, according to the State Department. About 450 have been granted since then, according to a letter that Democratic Sens. Chris Van Hollen, Chris Murphy and Richard Blumenthal sent Thursday to administration officials. The letter, obtained by the AP, seeks more information about the waiver process.

The arts center's Drew Klein recalls word came with just six days to go: The Paris-based Alzghair could come, with only one of the other dancers.

Watching from the audience, artist Kate Kern noticed the third dancer in the video and later learned why he wasn't there. "It really brought home the effects of the travel ban," she says.

Alzghair didn't respond to interview requests. To Covey and Klein, the performances stand as a reason to keep trying to bring in artists from countries affected by the ban when many presenters are wary.

"People, on a human level, still want to be connected and hear each other's stories," Klein says.

ST. CLOUD, MINNESOTA, AND NAIROBI, KENYA

When Abdisalan Mohamed Jele brought his two young sons from Kenya to Minnesota, he thought his wife and new baby girl would follow two weeks later.

Jele and his wife, Nimo Abdi Hassan, are from Somalia, which has been ravaged by civil war for a quarter-century. He came to the U.S. in 2007, became a citizen five years later and rejoiced when she was issued a visa shortly after giving birth last year. But the visa expired before she could get the newborn a passport. The couple figured a new visa would be issued quickly.

Instead, the family has been waiting six months, with no reunion in sight. A March 8 email from the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, where Hassan lives, says the travel ban makes her ineligible for a visa, but consular officials are reviewing the possibility of a waiver.

Their sons, 7 and 4, sometimes ask when their mother is coming. Jele tries to reassure them: "Soon. Soon."

"It's so hard," he says, wiping tears from his cheeks. "I'm American. I don't know why my family can't come here."

Jele's attorney, Laura Tripiciano, says Hassan, 32, easily qualifies for a waiver. But there's no timeline for a decision, and Jele, 31, isn't sure how much longer he can wait. He's supporting Hassan in Kenya while paying for a St. Cloud, Minnesota, apartment big enough for a family of five.

On a typical day, Jele drops his elder son at the school bus and the younger one with the boys' aunt, then goes to school himself to learn English and earn his GED. After taking the older boy from school to the aunt's, Jele works from 3:30 p.m. to midnight at a life jacket factory. Finally, he takes the sleeping boys home.

Some days, he has no time to eat. Once, he was so frazzled he forgot his work badge, safety glasses and shoes. He appreciates his sister's help with child care, but it's becoming too much to ask.

If his wife doesn't get a visa soon, Jele thinks he might have to send their boys — who are U.S. citizens — back to Kenya or quit his job to care for them. He said he understands security concerns but believes Hassan is being singled out because she's Somali.

"I love this country because we have a lot of opportunity, education, health, peace," Jele says. "I live here. I want to live here. But if my wife, she lives in Nairobi ... sometimes, I'm thinking I move back to Africa."

___

Associated Press writers Amy Forliti in St. Cloud, Minnesota; Josh Lederman in Washington and Lee Keath in Cairo contributed to this report.Caught orange-handed?

A Louisiana woman called police Tuesday evening when she arrived at her home and found a complete stranger eating Cheetos in her bathtub, authorities said.

A responding officer in Monroe found a full tub of water and a plate of food along with half eaten Cheetos. The Cheetos-- which were on the toilet next to the tub-- belonged to the homeowner, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.

A tall ice chest under a broken window was also found, police said.

The affidavit identified Evelyn Washington, 29, as the intruder. Washington allegedly told the homeowner and police that an unknown male had told her to break into the house.

Washington was arrested and taken to the Ouachita Correction Center, according to jail records. She faces charges of burglary and property damage.

Washington remained in jail through Wednesday with bond set at $500. It's unclear if she has a lawyer.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.next

prev

Pushed by a wave of demonstrations by women's groups, the homeland of Pope Francis seems closer than ever to legalizing abortion.

The protests and shifting public opinion have led conservative President Mauricio Macri to call for Congress to launch a debate on a broader legalization of abortion in Argentina, which currently allows the procedure only in cases of rape or risks to the mother's health.

A bill allowing elective abortion in the first 14 weeks of pregnancy was introduced in Congress earlier this year with the backing of 70 lawmakers from across the political spectrum. If approved by the lower house in a vote expected in June, it would go to the senate. Macri has said that even though he remains anti-abortion, he would not veto the bill if passed.next

prev

Miguel Diaz-Canel has been the presumptive next president of Cuba since 2013, when Raul Castro named the laconic former provincial official to the important post of first vice president and lauded him as "neither a novice nor an improviser," high praise in a system dedicated to continuity over all.

Castro said nothing about how a young civilian from outside his family could lead the socialist nation that he and his older brother Fidel created from scratch and ruled with total control for nearly 60 years.

Exiles in Miami said Diaz-Canel would be a figurehead for continued Castro dominance. Cubans on the island speculated about a weak president sharing power with the head of the communist party, or maybe a newly created post of prime minister. No one who knew was talking. And no one who was talking knew.

The first clues to the mystery of Cuba's future power structure were revealed Thursday when Raul Castro handed the presidency to Diaz-Canel, who took office shortly after 9 a.m. when the 604-member National Assembly said 603 of its members had approved the 57-year-old as the sole official candidate for the top government position.

With Castro watching from the audience, Diaz-Canel made clear that for the moment he would defer to the man who founded the Cuban communist system along with his brother. Diaz-Canel said he would retain Castro's Cabinet through at least July, when the National Assembly meets again.

"I confirm to this assembly that Raul Castro, as first secretary of the Communist Party, will lead the decisions about the future of the country," Diaz-Canel said. "Cuba needs him, providing ideas and proposals for the revolutionary cause, orienting and alerting us about any error or deficiency, teaching us, and always ready to confront imperialism."

Perhaps more importantly, Castro's 90-minute valedictory speech offered his first clear plan for a president whom Castro seemed to envision as the heir to near-total control of the country's political system, which in turn dominates virtually every aspect of life in Cuba. Castro said he foresees the white-haired electronics engineer serving two five-year terms as leader of the Cuban government, and taking the helm of the Communist Party, the country's ultimate authority, also for two five-year terms, when Castro leaves the powerful position in 2021.

"From that point on, I will be just another soldier defending this revolution," Castro said. The 86-year-old general broke frequently from his prepared remarks to joke and banter with officials on the dais in the National Assembly, saying he looked forward to having more time to travel the country.

State media struck a similar valedictory tone. The evening newscast played black-and-white footage of Castro as a young revolutionary, with the soundtrack of "The Last Mambi" a song that bids farewell to Castro as a public figure and was written by Raul Torres, a singer who composed a similar homage to Fidel Castro after the revolutionary leader's death in 2016.

The plan laid out by Raul Castro on Thursday would leave Diaz-Canel as the dominant figure in Cuban politics until 2031.

"The same thing we're doing with him, he'll have to do with his successor," Castro said. "When his 10 years of service as president of the Council of State and Council of Ministers are over, he'll have three years as first secretary in order to facilitate the transition. This will help us avoid mistakes by his successor, until (Diaz-Canel) retires to take care of the grandchildren he will have then, if he doesn't have them already, or his great-grandchildren."

Diaz-Canel pledged that his priority would be preserving Cuba's communist system while gradually reforming the economy and making the government more responsive to the people.

"There's no space here for a transition that ignores or destroys the legacy of so many years of struggle," Diaz-Canel said.

Diaz-Canel said he would work to implement a long-term plan laid out by the National Assembly and Communist Party that would continue allowing the limited growth of private enterprises like restaurants and taxis, while leaving the economy's most important sectors such as energy, mining, telecommunications, medical services and rum- and cigar-production in the hands of the state.

"The people have given this assembly the mandate to provide continuity to the Cuban Revolution during a crucial, historic moment that will be defined by all that we achieve in the advance of the modernization of our social and economic model," Diaz-Canel said.

Cubans said they expected their new president to deliver improvements to the island's economy, which remains stagnant and dominated by inefficient, unproductive state-run enterprises that are unable to provide salaries high enough to cover basic needs. The average monthly pay for state workers is roughly $30 a month.

"I hope that Diaz-Canel brings prosperity," said Richard Perez, a souvenir salesman in Old Havana. "I want to see changes, above all economic changes allowing people to have their own businesses, without the state in charge of so many things."

But in Miami, Cuban-Americans said they didn't expect much from Diaz-Canel.

"It's a cosmetic change," said Wilfredo Allen, a 66-year-old lawyer who left Cuba two years after the Castros' 1959 revolution. "The reality is that Raul Castro is still controlling the Communist Party. We are very far from having a democratic Cuba."

After formally taking over from his older brother Fidel in 2008, Raul Castro launched a series of reforms that led to a rapid expansion of Cuba's private sector and burgeoning use of cellphones and the internet. Cuba today has a vibrant real estate market and one of the world's fastest-growing airports. Tourism numbers have more than doubled since Castro and President Barack Obama re-established diplomatic relations in 2015, making Cuba a destination for nearly 5 million visitors a year, despite a plunge in relations under the Trump administration.

Castro's moves to open the economy even further have largely been frozen or reversed as soon as they began to generate conspicuous displays of wealth by the new entrepreneurial class in a country officially dedicated to equality among its citizens. Foreign investment remains anemic and the island's infrastructure is falling deeper into disrepair. The election of President Donald Trump dashed dreams of detente with the U.S., and after two decades of getting Venezuelan subsidies totaling more than $6 billion a year, Cuba's patron has collapsed economically, with no replacement in the wings.

Castro's inability or unwillingness to fix Cuba's structural problems with deep and wide-ranging reforms has many wondering how a successor without Castro's founding-father credentials will manage the country over the next five or 10 years.

"I want the country to advance," said Susel Calzado, a 61-year-old economics professor. "We already have a plan laid out."

At the U.S. State Department, spokeswoman Heather Nauert expressed disappointment at the handover, saying Cuban citizens "had no real power to affect the outcome" of what she called the "undemocratic transition" that brought Diaz-Canal to the presidency.

Vice President Mike Pence tweeted at Castro that the U.S. won't rest until Cuba "has free & fair elections, political prisoners are released & the people of Cuba are finally free!"

Diaz-Canel first gained prominence in Villa Clara province as the top Communist Party official, a post equivalent to governor. People there describe him as a hard-working, modest-living technocrat dedicated to improving public services. He became higher education minister in 2009 before moving into the vice presidency.

In a video of a Communist Party meeting that inexplicably leaked to the public last year, Diaz-Canel expressed a series of orthodox positions that included somberly pledging to shutter some independent media and labeling some European embassies as outposts of foreign subversion.

But he has also defended academics and bloggers who became targets of hard-liners, leading some to describe him a potential advocate for greater openness in a system intolerant of virtually any criticism or dissent.

International observers and Cubans alike will be scrutinizing every move he makes in coming days and weeks.

___

Associated Press writer Ben Fox contributed to this report.Three former American soldiers were found guilty Wednesday for the murder-for-hire of a female real estate agent in the Philippines whom an international crime boss accused of cheating him in a land deal.

Joseph Hunter, a 52-year-old former U.S. Army sniper and a onetime sergeant with a Special Forces background, was working as a security chief for weapons and drug trafficker Paul Le Roux when he recruited two former soldiers for what was called “ninja work.”

In 2012, he contacted Adam Samia, 43, and Carl David Stillwell, 50, and had them travel from their homes in Roxboro, North Carolina after Le Roux promised to pay them $35,000 a piece for the hit job.

Prosecutors said Samia and Stillwell pretended to be potential real estate clients for a property in the countryside outside of Manila. On their return trip to the capital city, Samia pulled out a .22-caliber gun and killed the broker by shooting her twice in the face as she sat in the back seat of a van.

After being paid, the killers were ordered back to the United States, where they were subsequently arrested in 2015.

“This horrifying real-life murder-for-hire case included details usually seen in action movies,” U.S. Attorney General Geoffrey S. Berman said in a statement. “Hunter, Samia and Stillwell conspired to end the lives of people overseas whom they had never met.”

The three men had denied they planned the execution-style hit.

During their hearing, defense attorneys argued the case lacked eyewitness, forensic and other conclusive evidence needed to convict. They also said government witnesses such as Le Roux should not be trusted.

All three men face up to life in prison. Hunter is already serving 20 years over a plot to kill a federal agent. Le Roux has pleaded guilty in the murder-for-hire plot and was cooperating, prosecutors said.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.next

prev

The meeting next week between the leaders of the rival Koreas will be the ultimate test of South Korean President Moon Jae-in's belief that his nation should lead international efforts to deal with North Korea.

Previous summits saw beaming grins, strong handshakes and high hopes for lasting peace and flourishing trade between the war-separated rivals after decades of bad blood. There will be significantly less room for sentimentality, and much higher stakes, when the dovish Moon faces off with the decidedly un-dovish North Korean leader Kim Jong Un at the border village of Panmunjom next Friday.

Moon's job, analysts say, is to keep up positive momentum for more substantial discussions between President Donald Trump and Kim — their separate summit is anticipated in May — over the North's nuclear disarmament.

A look at the challenges Moon faces ahead of the summit, which will be only the third such meeting between the Koreas since their 1950-53 war:

___

SHAKY IN THE MIDDLE?

Seoul can take credit for setting up the talks between Pyongyang and Washington. South Korean officials traveled to Pyongyang in early March and returned with word that Kim had expressed a willingness to talk about giving up his nuclear weapons with Moon and Trump, something that seemed unthinkable just months ago.

But it's unclear how much more South Korea can control the process. Seoul's ambitions took a hit when Kim made a surprise visit to Beijing recently for a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. That summit reintroduced China as a major player in the diplomatic push to resolve the nuclear standoff and almost certainly strengthened Kim's leverage heading into his talks with Moon and Trump.

Analysts say Kim would have asked China, North Korea's only major ally and economic lifeline, to soften its enforcement of sanctions aimed at the North. Kim also may have sought Chinese commitments to strongly oppose any military measure the United States might take should his talks with Trump fall apart and the North starts testing missiles again.

The Kim-Xi summit exposed South Korea's delicate role as an intermediary between Washington and Pyongyang and raised further questions over Seoul's claims that Kim has shown genuine interest in dealing away his nukes.

North Korea has been talking about the denuclearization of the peninsula since the 1980s, but that offer has been linked to a demand that U.S. troops leave South Korea, and that Washington halt its dispatches of nuclear-capable assets to the region during war games and guarantee that it won't use nukes against the North. Kim has always justified his nuclear weapons development as a defense against the "hostile policies" of the United States and its allies.

Moon said Thursday that Kim isn't asking for the removal of U.S. troops but still wants security guarantees and for the U.S. to end its "hostile" policy.

It won't be clear until the summits occur what North Korea intends, but its closeness to China strongly indicates its traditional stance remains. Beijing has called for a "dual suspension" — of the North's nuclear and missile activities and of the large-scale military exercises between the U.S. and South Korea.

For Washington and Seoul, denuclearization means ridding the North of its nuclear weapons.

Any ambiguity short of that meaning could pose credibility problems for Seoul, which also could be pushed aside if Washington chooses to deal more directly with China.

___

WHO'S IN THE DRIVER'S SEAT

At the meeting in Panmunjom, the Koreas may agree on measures to reduce tension across their heavily-armed border and regular communication on a new hotline between their leaders. They may also agree on cultural and sports exchanges.

But for South Korea, the meeting is mostly about keeping alive a positive atmosphere for the Kim-Trump talks. This means Moon must persuade Kim to OK a vision of denuclearization that's closer to what Seoul and Washington have in mind.

Moon has been calling for a process where North Korea first declares its commitment to denuclearization and a permanent peace regime on the peninsula in exchange for the allies promising a security guarantee. The North would then enter a phased process that begins with a freeze of its nuclear weapons and missiles and ends with their complete removal. Washington and Seoul would then set up a robust verification mechanism and gradually lift sanctions and carry out the promised security measures based on Pyongyang's fulfillment of its obligations.

Things could break down if Kim demands bigger concessions up front or asks for separate negotiations and rewards for completing each step. North Korea has always balked at allowing outside inspectors into its facilities.

Some South Korean and U.S. officials have said Kim may be looking to save an economy battered by tightening sanctions. But Patrick McEachern, a former State Department analyst currently with the Washington-based Wilson Center, said there's no economic panic in North Korea and the country's food prices and exchange rate remain unaffected.

"(Kim) seems to see himself as being in the driver's seat and entering negotiations from a position of strength," said McEachern. "Kim offered summits after declaring victory in completing his nuclear program, not any observable economic realization."

___

SUNRISE OR SUNSET

Moon has vowed to build on the legacies of late liberal Presidents Kim Dae-jung and Roh Moo-hyun and their so-called "Sunshine Policy," which Moon had a hand in building. Seoul's economic inducements resulted in two summits with the North and a temporary rapprochement in the 2000s.

Moon says the decade of hard-line conservative policies he ended when elected last year did nothing to stop Pyongyang's weapons advancements. He has balanced his criticism of the North's nuclear program with hints of ambitious economic promises in exchange for denuclearization. Moon's proposals have included reconnecting an inter-Korean railway and building a gas pipeline connecting the Koreas with Russia.

But Moon is in a significantly tougher spot than his liberal predecessors, who governed when the North's nuclear threat was nascent. It's becoming harder to get South Koreans excited about engaging a nuclear North Korea when there's no longer strong public interest in reunification. This means that Moon can't reward North Korea with big economic projects without also seeing the results of a verified denuclearization.

___

Follow Kim Tong-hyung on Twitter at @KimTongHyungBritain's U.N. ambassador says the Russians and Syrians must uphold their promises to let chemical weapons inspectors visit the site of a suspected poison gas attack in the Damascus suburb of Douma — and "it should happen expeditiously."

Karen Pierce said in an interview with The Associated Press on Thursday that "it's incumbent upon them more than ever to allow the team in, to escort it, to make sure it's safe, and to make sure it can do its work."

A U.N. security team preparing the way for the inspectors was shot at Tuesday while in Douma.

Pierce says the Russians control Douma and "it has to be a possibility" they have tampered with evidence from the attack. "But," she adds, "I stress we don't yet have the facts."Anti-ISIS forces in Syria have detained a Syrian-born German man suspected of recruiting some of the 9/11 hijackers to Al Qaeda, the Pentagon said Thursday.

Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) captured the detainee, identified as Mohammed Haydar Zammar, more than a month ago, Pentagon spokesman Eric Pahon said.

Zammar, who is his mid-fifties, was apprehended in northern Syria and was being interrogated, a senior Kurdish commander told Agence France-Presse on Wednesday. Zammar's fate remained unclear. The SDF is a predominantly Kurdish network of fighters.

The jihadist is known for allegedly helping plan the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the U.S., including recruiting some of the hijackers to the terror group. As the Pentagon noted, the official 9/11 Commission Report described him as an "outspoken, flamboyant Islamist" who extolled "the virtues of violent jihad."

Zammar fled Germany after the attacks and relocated to Morocco, where he soon was arrested in an operation involving CIA agents.

He later was handed to Syrian authorities who, in 2007, sentenced him to 12 years in prison for being a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, according to German state broadcaster Deutsche Welle.

He was released from prison after the Syrian civil war broke out in the region and most hardline jihadists and Islamists were released. Zammar, among many others, was believed to have joined the Islamic State terror group.

The Kurdish official didn’t say if Zammar has been actively engaged in fighting for the terror group in Syria.

Fox News' Jennifer Griffin contributed to this report.A man who reportedly told police he was Alex Rodriguez’s nephew was kidnapped and held for ransom in a New York City hotel early Thursday after a deal involving two people and a $600,000 Lamborghini went bad.

Norberto Susini, 29, who plays in independent baseball leagues, met two men identified as Lamin Vucetovic, 33, and Anthony Gilkes, 30, in Manhattan’s Times Square to sell them the luxury vehicle, police told FoxNews.com.

Gilkes and Vucetovic reportedly drove Susini to the Marriott Marquis, but then demanded Susini return a $35,000 deposit. The men then allegedly held Susini against his will in the hotel room.

Police said the pair proceeded to called Susini’s business partners and demanded a ransom and the car in return for the baseball player. The business partners called police instead, The New York Post reported.

Vucetovic and Gilkes were arrested at the hotel at 3:50 a.m. Thursday, police said. Gilkes was charged with unlawful imprisonment and Vucetovic faces a kidnapping charge.

Susini told police he was Rodriguez's nephew, but a spokesman for the former Yankees player told the New York Post the 29-year-old was the son of Rodriguez’s half-brother Joe’s late girlfriend.

“This guy is 100 percent not Alex’s relative,” a spokesman for the baseball player said.Lance Armstrong has reached a $5 million settlement with the federal government in a whistleblower lawsuit that could have sought $100 million in damages from the cyclist who was stripped of his record seven Tour de France victories after admitting he used performance-enhancing drugs throughout much of his career.

The deal announced Thursday came as the two sides prepared for a trial that was scheduled to start May 7 in Washington. Armstrong’s former U.S. Postal Service teammate Floyd Landis filed the original lawsuit in 2010 and is eligible for up to 25 percent of the settlement.

Seeking millions spent sponsoring Armstrong’s powerhouse teams, the government joined the lawsuit against Armstrong in 2013 after his televised confession to using steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs and methods. Armstrong had already retired, but the confession shattered the legacy of one of the most popular sports figures in the world.

In a statement to The Associated Press, Armstrong said he’s happy to have “made peace with the Postal Service.”

“While I believe that their lawsuit against me was meritless and unfair, and while I am spending a lot of money to resolve it, I have since 2013 tried to take full responsibility for my mistakes and inappropriate conduct, and make amends wherever possible,” he said. “I rode my heart out for the Postal cycling team, and was always especially proud to wear the red, white and blue eagle on my chest when competing in the Tour de France. Those memories are very real and mean a lot to me.”

The settlement clears the 46-year-old Armstrong of the most damaging legal issues still facing the cyclist since his downfall. He had already taken huge hits financially, losing all his major sponsors and being forced to pay more than $20 million in damages and settlements in a series of lawsuits. The government’s lawsuit would have been the biggest by far.

Armstrong is still believed to be worth millions based on a vast investment portfolio and homes in Austin, Texas, and Aspen, Colorado. He also owns a pair of bicycle shops in Austin and WeDu, an endurance events company. He also hosts a regular podcast in which he interviews other sports figures and celebrities and has provided running commentary on the Tour de France.

Armstrong had built a world-wide following during his career winning races and fighting cancer.

His personal story of recovering from testicular cancer that had spread to his brain, while forcefully denying persistent rumors of doping, had built his Lance Armstrong Foundation cancer charity into a $500 million global brand and turned him into a celebrity. The foundation, which removed him from its board and renamed itself Livestrong, has seen donations and revenue plummet since Armstrong’s confession.

Armstrong’s team was already under the Postal Service sponsorship when he won his first Tour de France in 1999. The media frenzy that followed pushed the agency to sign the team for another five years. Armstrong and his teams dominated cycling’s marquee event, winning every year from 1999-2005.

Armstrong’s cheating was finally uncovered in 2012 when the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency, armed with sworn testimony from Landis and other former teammates, moved to strip Armstrong of his titles.

Landis, himself a former doping cheat who was stripped of his 2006 Tour de France title, sued Armstrong under the federal False Claims Act, alleging Armstrong and his team committed fraud against the government when they cheated while riding under the Postal Service banner. According to court records, the contract paid the team, which was operated by Tailwind Sports Corp., about $32 million from 2000 to 2004. Armstrong got nearly $13.5 million.

Under the lawsuit, the government could have pursued “treble” damages, which could have reached the $100 million range. As the person who filed the original lawsuit, Landis is eligible for up to 25 percent of the settlement, which will include an additional $1.65 million paid to Landis’ attorneys.

Armstrong had claimed he didn’t owe the Postal Service anything because the agency made far more off the sponsorship than it paid; Armstrong’s lawyers introduced internal studies for the agency that calculated benefits in media exposure topping $100 million. The government countered that Armstrong had been “unjustly enriched” through the sponsorship and that the negative fallout from the doping scandal tainted the agency’s reputation.

Armstrong had been the target of a federal criminal grand jury, but that case was closed without charges in February 2012. Armstrong had previously tried to settle the Landis whistleblower lawsuit, but those talks broke down before the government announced its intention to join the case.

“I am glad to resolve this case and move forward with my life,” Armstrong said. “I’m looking forward to devoting myself to the many great things in my life — my five kids, my wife, my podcast, several exciting writing and film projects, my work as a cancer survivor, and my passion for sports and competition. There is a lot to look forward to.”Rob Gronkowski has a horse in the Kentucky Derby – and it shares his name.

The New England Patriots tight end announced Wednesday he purchased a “substantial stake” in his namestake racehorse.

“This horse is a winner and I love a winner,” Gronkowski said, according to his GronkNation blog. “When I heard about the racehorse being named after me, I started watching and got really stoked when he started winning. He’s won his last three races and is now headed to the Derby. I’m all in: Welcome to the Gronk Family, Gronkowski the Horse!"

Gronkowski partnered with Phoenix Thoroughbreds Ltd to make the deal. The company initially bought the horse in England in 2017.

ROB GRONKOWSKI FULFILLS HEART TRANSPLANT PATIENT'S 'ONE WISH'

Bloodstock agent Kerri Radcliffe, who made the purchase for Phoenix Thoroughbreds and gave the colt its famous name, told USA Today she selected the horse because it was "built like a tank" and akin to "the equine form of Gronk.”

The NFL star will be at Churchill Downs in Louisville to watch his colt’s performance in the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby.

“I really can’t think of anything cooler than having a top-class thoroughbred named after me,” Gronkowski added. “Except maybe having him win the Derby.”

The so-called “Greatest Two Minutes in Sports” will be held May 5. The winning purse is $2 million.

The two Gronkowskis will meet for the first time in the days leading up to the Derby.

Though the colt has a star patron, he is a dark horse with lackluster odds – just a 80-to-1 shot at a first place finish, according to the Westgate Las Vegas Superbook.

HORSE NAMED AFTER PATRIOTS' ROB GRONKOWSKI TO RUN KENTUCKY DERBY

The equine Gronkowski, a 3-year-old-colt, earned his Kentucky Derby berth after winning the Burradon Stakes in Newcastle, England, in March with trainer Jeremy Noseda. The victory lifted the thoroughbred to the coveted qualifying spot on cumulative points.

This year’s Kentucky Derby is the first time the iconic race will allot one of its 20 spots to a European-based horse. Another spot will be fielded by a Japan-based colt.

The race is the first of the Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing, followed by the Preakness Stakes on May 19 and Belmont Stakes on June 9.Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney said former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar exploited her vulnerabilities when her coaches withheld food -- almost to the point of starvation.

"I think I would've starved at the Olympics if I didn't have [Nassar] bring me food," Maroney told NBC’s “Dateline” in a preview clip released Thursday.

Maroney, who won a gold medal in the team event and a silver in vault at the 2012 Summer Olympic Games in London, detailed how the disgraced doctor would earn her trust by buying her a loaf of bread. She said gymnastics coaches would watch her to keep her weight down.

“Your coaches are just always watching you. And wanting to keep you skinny," Maroney said. "And there's just other things about the culture that are also messed up that he used against us."

MCKAYLA MARONEY: LARRY NASSAR MOLESTED ME 'HUNDREDS' OF TIMES

Maroney also revealed in the “Dateline” episode airing Sunday that Nassar molested her “hundreds” of times starting at age 13 and lasting until she retired from the sport. She said one of her first times at Karolyi Ranch, the USA Gymnastics National Team training center, Nassar molested her, saying it was a “medically necessary treatment that he had been performing on patients for over 30 years.”

Jordyn Wieber, her teammate at the 2012 Olympics, also gave a similar account of Nassar's manipulation to a U.S. Senate subcommittee Wednesday.

"Larry acted like our friend," Wieber said. "He always had a sympathetic ear for complaints about our coaches. He would bring us food and coffee at the Olympics when we were hungry.”

She added: “I didn't know that these were all grooming techniques that he used to manipulate and brainwash me into trusting him."

Nassar has since been sentenced to 40 to 175 years in prison for sex crimes.

USA Gymnastics has come under fire since more than 140 girls and women came forward accusing Nassar of sexual abuse. The organization previously said it was unaware of Nassar’s abuse until 2015, but many athletes said USA Gymnastics didn’t do enough to prevent the horrific crimes.

USA GYMNASTICS SUES INSURANCE CARRIERS AMID NASSAR LAWSUITS

A USA Gymnastics spokeswoman said in a statement to USA Today about the recent lawsuit: “USA Gymnastics is committed to creating a culture that empowers and supports our athletes and focuses on our highest priority, which is the safety and well-being of our athletes. We hope everything we do going forward makes this very clear.”New York Yankees superstars rallied around a 10-year-old Pennsylvania girl whose Facebook video about being bullied in elementary school went viral.

Aaron Judge, Giancarlo Stanton and C.C. Sabathia were among those seen in a video posted to the Yankees’ Twitter account Wednesday, with each MLB star responding to Cassidy’s harrowing ordeal.

Hey Cassidy - we saw the video you made and from all of us here at the New York Yankees, we want you to know that you are not alone. We have your back! https://t.co/uuRb0ghzf1 pic.twitter.com/V2EeuJ1YmW — New York Yankees (@Yankees) April 18, 2018

Cassidy’s video was shared through her mother’s Facebook page because the social media page Cassidy was running was shut down over her age. Cassidy told the tale about her difficulty with bullies through written notecards, according to For The Win.

“My name is Cassidy. I am 10 years old. I go to John Adams Elementary School. I am in 4th grade. I started getting bullied in 1st grade. One day during recess, a group of kids grabbed my purse off of a teacher, and spit on it, and me,” she said.

Cassidy explained what happens when she goes outside to play during school.

“The group of kids always come up to me during recess, trying to fight me," she said. "They hit me, kicked me, pulled my hair, pushed me, stepped on me, spit on me…Kids don't even want to go near me. Whenever I sit at a lunch table, the kids get up. They threaten to kill me, and they tell me to kill myself. They also spilled milk all over my jacket. They also call me names."

She then claimed the principal of the school doesn’t do anything about the bullying.

“There's four of them and only one of me. The principal doesn't do anything. I feel so alone, I feel like I have no one. It hurts," Cassidy said. "This is my story… Stop bullying! Not just for me for other kids too. Please share my story!

The video had been viewed more than 249,000 times and shared more than 9,000 times as of early Thursday.

"They threaten to kill me, and they tell me to kill myself." - Cassidy

Sabathia was featured prominently in the video, telling the girl he wanted her to know “we care about you” and to count the “Yankees among your friends.”

“We may be older than you, we may be taller than you, but we want you to know that we look up to you,” cards held up by the Yankees players said. “You are not alone! Count the New York Yankees among your friends! You can sit next to us at lunch anytime!!! In fact, we are saving a seat for you at our lunch table in the clubhouse. Bullying is WRONG. We won't stand for it! No one should ever be made to feel bad about who they are. We need to care for each other. There are 25 of us on this team! And we all got your back!!!!”A TNT basketball reporter was slammed on social media Wednesday night after asking LeBron James about the death earlier in the day of San Antonio Spurs coach Gregg Popovich’s wife.

Allie LaForce came under fire for asking James the question immediately after his 46-point performance against the Indiana Pacers in Game 2 of an opening-round NBA playoff series, which helped James' Cleveland Cavaliers tie the series at one game apiece.

James appeared to be surprised by the question, but gave a heartfelt answer, the New York Post reported.

Allie LaForce asks LeBron James about Gregg Popovich's wife, Erin, passing away. Very emotional response. pic.twitter.com/3SdQBi5Zi2 — Jordan Heck (@JordanHeckFF) April 19, 2018

“Obviously I’m a huge Pop fan. I love Pop,” James said, using the coach's nickname. “That’s such a tragedy and my best wishes go out to Pop and his family. I know that’s devastating news and holy … It’s just a lot. The NBA family, we all sit together and compete every night. But something like this happens, it puts everything in perspective. So I send my well wishes and my prayers up to the heaven above.”

NBA fans took to social media to slam LaForce for asking James the question.

On Reddit, the conversation turned from whether it was the appropriate time to ask the Cavs superstar the question to misogynistic comments about LaForce's looks.

Some Twitter users thought it was unfair of LaForce to put James on the spot.

“Why would Allie LaForce ask LeBron about Greg [sic] Popovich’s wife passing away in the immediate post game interview?” one Twitter user asked. “Just an absolute bomb to drop on him after a game, and put him on the spot because the news came in during the game.”

Another user speculated that perhaps that James didn't know about the death until LaForce broke the news to him.

“Can’t believe Allie LaForce just broke the news to LeBron post-game, mid-interview that Popovich’s wife passed and after blindsiding him, asked his thoughts on this sensitive topic in front of millions on live TV. Extremely unprofessional and uncomfortable. TNT should be ashamed.”

Display nothing; This is on Publish with no configured Image

TNT basketball anchor Ernie Johnson clarified on the post-game show that LaForce gave James a heads-up before asking about Popovich’s wife.

James also tried to put out the fire in a video on his UNINTERRUPTED platform.

.@KingJames sends his thoughts and prayers to the family of Gregg Popovich, sets record straight on reporter’s question. pic.twitter.com/VCsFuEtFVU — UNINTERRUPTED (@uninterrupted) April 19, 2018

“A lot of people think I was blindsided. That is absolutely false,” James said. “Allie LaForce told me she was going to ask me the question and if it was OK. Once I started talking about it on-air, actually my emotions kind of took over and that was just my emotions coming straight from the heart.”The search is on for a Navy veteran’s therapy dog after it ran away from the scene of an accident on Sunday. Jose Castellon, a retired veteran who suffered a traumatic brain injury in 2016, was traveling with his black and white Maltese-Papillon mix named Luna when tragedy struck on a Florida interstate.

“He got into a car accident. He doesn’t remember anything about it,” Zoraida Castellon, the 20-year veteran’s sister-in-law told Fox 35. “Only thing he remembers is when the first responders got there and they were taking him out of the car.”

BOY HIT BY FOUL BALL AT BASEBALL GAME APPEARS TO HAVE BRAIN INJURY

According to the report, Luna bolted as Volusia County rescue crews worked to cut the vehicle open and hasn’t been seen since. The dog is microchipped, but hasn’t turned up at any local rescues or veterinarians.

“He’s been asking for her for the last couple of days,” Castellon told Fox 35. “He’s doing good, but I think he’s more depressed about his dog. He cares about getting better.”

The family is asking for anyone with information about Luna to contact local animal shelters or authorities.Just off the Las Vegas Strip, a large tract of land resembles an army barracks replete with tanks, Humvees, and a parked helicopter. But this is no official military installation. Instead, the grounds are a sort of war theme park for civilians clamoring to experience a day in the life of a soldier.

Battlefield Vegas opened in 2012 and has amassed an arsenal of hundreds of weapons dating back to World War I for customers to choose from. The indoor gun range is the highlight of the shooting experience. Fox News was allowed to shoot a minigun. This multi-barrel machine gun can spray 200 rounds in 1.3 seconds.

Adorned with protective headset and safety glasses and steadied in a bracing stance, a shooter is helped by an attendant who gives the go ahead.

“3,2,1... Fire!”

The firepower would have blown me against the wall, had the weapon not been mounted to the ground. After a loud flash of gunfire, mere seconds, it was over. The ear-splitting hail of bullets seemed over before it even began. The minigun is one of the most popular offerings at the range, according to Matthew Supnick, operations manager of Battlefield Vegas.

“We came in with the military theme, we’re about 90 percent staffed by veterans of either prior service or reserve, or National Guard. That’s gives us a really unique spin because most of our staff are highly trained on the weapons systems,” he said.

The cache of hardware is an offshoot of the private personal collection of the co-owner Ron Cheney. Many of the guns were either built or refurbished. The armored vehicles in the collection’s caravan have come from all over the world. The experience not only lets customers have fun with all the “toys,” but there is a focus on military history as well since some are vintage pieces from the major conflicts of the 20th century.

“We’ve got all the World War II vintage stuff. We’ve got the M1 Garands, the Thompson submachine guns, the BARs (Browning Automatic Rifle), the 1919 machine guns, the German MP 44s, the German MG-42s... Just about everything you can think of that’s out there, we’ve got,” Supnick said.

Battlefield Vegas, and other gun ranges near the Strip, have found themselves in a defensive posture recently, especially in the wake of the largest mass shooting in U.S. history a few miles away.

The company says it stays as far away from politics as it can. But as the national conversation on gun rights and gun control reaches a fever pitch after the Parkland school shooting in Florida in February, shooting ranges are trying to avoid an all-encompassing stigma.

At Battlefield Vegas, participants have to sign a waiver and get a preliminary briefing on the rules of the range before a weapon even touches their hands. Battlefield Vegas offers customers the option to get picked up from their hotel on the Strip in a military Humvee and guests get to take home their targets as a souvenir.

For thrill seekers, the most outlandish and highly sought after experience is the expensive “Crush a car with a tank” option. This $2,500 ride lets visitors get behind the wheel of a replica M1A1 Abrams tank and drive over the shell of a junkyard car.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Other packages are named after famous battles and special operations allowing customers to use the weapons that were fired in Stalingrad, Iwo Jima, D-Day and by SEAL Team 6.

Battlefield Vegas is planning to expand this summer, according to Supnick. An outdoor range is in the works where the battlefield experience will become even more realistic. Flamethrowers and firing ammunition from tanks are all in the works.article

Shares are lower in Asia after a major supplier to Apple forecast continued weak demand for mobile devices. A warning by the head of the IMF over the potential for trade tensions to harm global growth also weighed on sentiment.

Continue Reading Below

KEEPING SCORE: Japan's Nikkei 225 edged 0.1 percent lower to 22,183.05, shedding early gains. South Korea's Kospi lost 0.3 percent to 2,478.38 while Hong Kong's Hang Seng index fell 0.4 percent to 30,579.54. The Shanghai Composite Index slumped 1.2 percent to 3,080.01. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 retreated 0.2 percent to 5,870.10. Stocks in Taiwan, Singapore and Indonesia also declined.

APPLE SUPPLIERS: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. plunged 5.5 percent in Taiwan after the key Asian Apple supplier gave a lower-than-expected revenue forecast for the second quarter of $7.8 billion-$7.9 billion. The company predicted demand in the mobile sector would remain weak. Other Apple suppliers also traded lower. South Korea's LG Display Co. lost 0.8 percent and Samsung Electronics Co., tumbled 1.7 percent.

ANALYST'S TAKE: Weak guidance from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., a major supplier to Apple, brewed concerns of weak iPhone demand, dragging technology shares lower, Jingyi Pan, a market strategist at IG in Singapore, said in a commentary. "The corresponding impact would certainly be watched into the Asian session today with the supply chain sprawled across the region."

TRADE: The head of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, is urging countries to work out their differences over trade and take advantage of the healthy world economy to reduce debt before the next downturn comes. Speaking as the IMF and World Bank began their spring meeting, Lagarde warned against complacency: "More needs to be done to sustain this upswing and foster long-term growth," she said.

WALL STREET: U.S. stock markets finished lower on Thursday, ending a three-day winning streak for the market as technology and consumer products companies went sour. The S&P 500 index fell 0.6 percent to 2,693.13. The Dow Jones industrial average slid 0.3 percent to 24,664.89. The Nasdaq composite lost 0.8 percent to 7,238.06. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gave up 0.6 percent to 1,573.82.

Advertisement

OIL: Benchmark U.S. crude lost 1 cent to $68.32 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract lost 14 cents to finish at $68.33 per barrel on Thursday. Brent crude, used to price international oils, added 2 cents to $73.80 per barrel in London. On Thursday, it rose 30 cents to close at $73.78 per barrel in London.

CURRENCIES: The dollar rose to 107.65 yen from 107.38 yen. The euro fell to $1.2340 from $1.2345.article

Mattel Inc. announced Thursday that its CEO Margo Georgiadis is stepping down and is being succeeded by a company director and former studio executive.

Continue Reading Below

The toy giant, based in El Segundo, California, said the board has named Ynon Kreiz, a Mattel director since June 2017, as her replacement, effective April 26.

Mattel, the maker of the iconic Barbie and Fisher-Price brands, said that Georgiadis will serve in an advisory role through May 10 to ensure a smooth transition.

Georgiadis, a former Google executive who took the top spot in February 2017, informed the board of her decision and said she plans to pursue a new opportunity in the technology sector, Mattel said in a statement.

Kreiz, who brings more than two decades of experience in the media and entertainment industries, will become chairman of the board, effective upon his election by shareholders at the company's annual meeting set for May 17.

During her tenure, Georgiadis sought to cut costs and suspended Mattel's dividend but she was unable to turn around the company's business.

Advertisement

Like other toy companies, Mattel has been grappling with children's shift away from traditional toys toward mobile devices. And shoppers are increasingly buying online at Amazon.com.

The pressures are mounting after Toys R Us announced in March that it was liquidating its U.S. stores. The toy chain had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy last fall, but after a disastrous holiday shopping season, it was forced into liquidation.

Kreiz was the former chairman and CEO of Maker Studios, Inc., a global digital media and content network company, which was acquired by The Walt Disney Company in 2014. He previously served as chairman and CEO of Endemol Group, one of the world's largest independent television production companies with local operations in more than 30 countries.

Mattel's shares rose more than 1 percent, or 23 cents to $13. 68 in after-hours trading after slipping more than 3 percent to $13.45 in regular trading. Shares have been down nearly 50 percent since Georgiadis took the helm.

___________

Follow Anne D'Innocenzio at http://www.Twitter.com/adinnocenzioarticle

The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):

Continue Reading Below

4 p.m.

The stock market had its first loss of the week as technology companies and consumer products makers led U.S. indexes lower.

Apple lost 2.8 percent Thursday and tobacco maker Philip Morris International plunged 15.6 percent after reporting weak results, noting that sales of its iQos device in Japan were slow.

Banks bucked the downward trend and rose along with bond yields. Bank of New York Mellon climbed 5.7 percent.

Energy stocks also rose. Philips 66 rose 1.6 percent.

Advertisement

The S&P 500 index fell 15 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,693.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 83 points, or 0.3 percent, to 24,664. The Nasdaq composite fell 57 points, or 0.8 percent, to 7,238.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.91 percent.

___

11:45 a.m.

U.S. stocks are moving lower in midday trading, weighed down by losses in technology and consumer products companies.

Apple lost 2.3 percent Thursday and tobacco maker Philip Morris International plunged 16.8 percent after reporting weak results.

Banks bucked the downward trend and rose along with bond yields. Bank of New York Mellon climbed 5.2 percent.

Energy stocks also rose as a rally in oil prices continued, bringing crude to the highest level in more than three years. Philips 66 rose 1.4 percent.

The S&P 500 index fell 18 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,689.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 90 points, or 0.4 percent, to 24,657. The Nasdaq fell 58 points, or 0.8 percent, to 7,236.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.93 percent.

___

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are edging lower in early trading on Wall Street, putting the market on track for its first loss this week.

Technology companies and makers of consumer products posted some of the biggest losses in early trading Thursday.

Apple sank 1.7 percent and Philip Morris International sank 12.8 percent after reporting weak results.

Energy companies bucked the downward trend and rose along with the price of crude oil, which is at a three-year high. Noble Energy rose 1 percent.

The S&P 500 index fell 9 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,698.

The Dow Jones industrial average lost 51 points, or 0.2 percent, to 24,698. The Nasdaq composite fell 28 points, or 0.4 percent, to 7,267.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 2.93 percent.article

Global stock markets traded in fairly narrow ranges Thursday following a solid rebound based on waning fears about a trade war. Oil prices though pushed ahead to touch fresh multi-year highs on improving optimism about the global economy.

Continue Reading Below

KEEPING SCORE: In Europe, the FTSE 100 index of leading British shares was up 0.1 percent at 7,327 while the CAC 40 in France rose 0.1 percent to 5,385. Germany's DAX was down 0.3 percent at 12,556. Wall Street was poised to open slightly lower, with Dow futures and the broader S&P 500 futures down 0.2 percent.

PAUSE AFTER RALLY: Stock markets around the world have recovered a lot of ground lately as investor concerns over a trade war between the U.S. and China have abated slightly amid signs that the two are working to avoid what could be a debilitating economic development for the world economy. A solid start to the U.S. quarterly corporate earnings results season has also helped to shore up sentiment. Bank of New York Mellon, Mattel and Philip Morris will be in the spotlight Thursday.

ANALYST TAKE: "Stocks have been gradually rising this month which has been aided by easing trade war tensions — albeit far from resolved — and the geopolitical environment, while remaining heated, becoming less of a concern," said Craig Erlam, senior market analyst at OANDA. "Earnings season has also got off to a very good start with the banks reporting strong earnings growth and comfortably beating already inflated market expectations."

CRESTING CRUDE: One beneficiary has been the price of oil, which has risen to its highest level since late 2014. The latest report on U.S. inventories found that crude stockpiles fell sharply in a sign of stronger than expected demand. News reports citing industry sources saying Saudi Arabia would be happy to see prices hit $100 a barrel are also helping lift the rally and shares of energy companies. The benchmark New York rate was up 82 cents at $69.29 a barrel while Brent, the international standard, rose 97 cents to $74.45 a barrel.

THE QUOTE: "While the elimination of oversupply has been a critical factor pushing oil prices, I still believe there's a significant risk premium being priced in, specifically the fear of supply disruption from the Middle East and possible renewed sanctions on Russia and Iran," said Hussein Sayed, Chief Market Strategist at FXTM.

Advertisement

ASIAN SCORECARD: Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 index rose 0.2 percent to 22,191.18 and South Korea's Kospi added 0.3 percent to 2,486.10. Hong Kong's Hang Seng jumped 1.4 percent to 30,708.44 and the Shanghai Composite in mainland China gained 0.8 percent to 3,117.38.

CURRENCIES: The euro was flat at $1.2373 while the dollar rose 0.1 percent to 107.58 yen.article

Intel is shutting down it’s New Devices Group which developed the Vaunt smart glasses project, according to published reports.

Continue Reading Below

Shutting down the unit is expected to cost jobs from a team that has around 200 people.

That group was formed in 2013 to develop products such as fitness trackers and smart glasses, but the products weren’t successful despite having partnerships with Oakley and Tag Heuer.

Intel will stay focused on making chips for various applications as well as other hardware.

Intel CEO Brian Krzanich announced the formation of the group in 2013, soon after taking over from Paul Otellini.

Intel shares are up 48 percent in the past year.New Jersey investigators are trying to figure out if people performing a ritual are responsible for the remains of a decapitated goat found Monday in a storage bin near railroad tracks.

The goat’s body was found along the New York Susquehanna Railroad tracks in Elmwood Park, according to the The Record of Bergen County.

"Upon arrival, officers located a 27-gallon plastic tote which contained the carcass of a headless goat," Elmwood Park Police Chief Michael Foligno told NJ.com in an email.

The Bergen County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals also responded to the scene, but no other evidence was found.

"The entire area was canvassed for additional evidence with negative results," Foligno said, adding police were looking into whether the goat was killed in a ritual.

Elmwood Park police urge anyone with information about the goat’s death to contact them.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Comedian Jim Florentine and TV commentator Dr. Kelly Powers join Tom Shillue to discuss the most important stories of the day ... including a Fresno State professor who is under fire for saying terrible things about the late Barbara Bush. The gang debates if she should be fired over her awful tweets. Than a study explores how much Americans use dirty words.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Show Shillue Show LIVE Monday through Friday 3-6 pm Eastern! Find out more at TomShillueShow.comThe Justice Department's inspector general says fired FBI head Andrew McCabe should be prosecuted!

But if you think this means McCabe or anyone related to the FBI's apparently botched investigation of the Clinton scandals will go to jail ... don't hold your breath.

At least according to the Washington Times opinion editor Charles Hurt.

On Thursday's show, Fox News Contributor Charles Hurt and Tom Shillue discussed why even after the latest developments about the Clinton scandals, both agreed they highly doubt anyone at the DOJ will pursue charges against McCabe, his former boss James Comey or Hillary CLinton.Try Some Of Our Other Podcasts!Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The first hour of the Brian Kilmeade Radio Show on FOX News Talk 9am-Noon Eastern M-F.More Podcasts

· The Whip Around

In hurry? Start the day with this quick news podcast!

· Hourly Newscast

The news updated every hour!

· The Five

It’s the full primetime show. FREE!

· Perino & Stirewalt

Dana Perino & Chris Stirewalt dishing on politics news every week.

· The One w/ Greg Gutfeld

You know him. You love him. Greg Gutfeld.

· Livin’ the Bream

Inspirational stories, personal anecdotes and an insider’s perspective from Shannon Bream.

· HemmerTime

One on one with engaging personalities hosted by Bill Hemmer.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

FOX's Ashley Dvorkin spends "A Few Moments With..." the legendary Frank Oz.

Listen to the interview below:

Follow Ashley Dvorkin on Twitter: @AshleyDvorkin