The Trump administration enjoyed a favorable reception Wednesday from the Supreme Court's conservative majority in the first significant legal test of this president's policies and power, as the justices reviewed the high-stakes challenge to the so-called travel ban.

At issue is whether the third and latest version of President Trump's travel restrictions, affecting visitors from five majority Muslim nations, discriminate on the basis of nationality and religion, in the government's issuance of immigrant visas.

Protesters gathered outside the court to condemn the restrictions. But inside the courtroom, the last scheduled oral argument of the term appeared divided along the usual conservative-liberal lines.

Despite some speculation over Trump appointee Neil Gorsuch – given a recent ruling in which he sided with liberal colleagues on an immigration case – the conservative jurist seemed to offer indirect support Wednesday as he called into question a federal judge’s prior attempt to suspend the travel ban nationwide.

Justice Samuel Alito also noted that of the 50 or so mostly Muslim majority countries, only five were on the current banned list, or about 8 percent of the population, he said.

"That does not look at all like a Muslim ban," he said, referring to the label the policy’s critics have given it.

Justice Elena Kagan, meanwhile, questioned whether the executive had free rein to assert his authority over foreign policy and immigration matters and, if so, was it "game over" for any subsequent meaningful judicial review.

Justice Sonia Sotomayor also sought assurances from the Justice Department's solicitor general that the waiver policies for those seeking a visa from five mostly Muslim countries were more than just "window dressing.”

The case could, once again, come down to Justice Anthony Kennedy. But his line of questioning could be seen as positive for the administration.

At one point, he wondered whether then-candidate Trump's campaign call for a "total and complete shutdown of Muslims" entering the U.S. (rhetoric being used against him in this case) was important to the current appeal.

"Is anything said in a campaign irrelevant?" he asked.

But Kennedy also suggested the president has "continuing discretion" to decide how long countries can remain on the banned list of entry, meaning the policies could be open-ended.

Given the high public interest, the court modified its usual policy and released audio of the session within an hour after its conclusion.

A decision expected in June could represent a precedent-setting ruling on the limits of executive power, especially within the immigration context.

The justices have allowed the current restrictions -- known as travel ban 3.0 -- to be enforced at the Justice Department's request, at least until the case is fully litigated.

Sixteen state leaders led by Texas are among a number of coalitions backing the Trump administration. But Hawaii officials, who filed the appeal contesting all of the president's orders, say the president's policies continue to violate the Constitution's guarantee of religious freedom:

"Any reasonable observer who heard the President's campaign promises, read his thinly justified orders banning overwhelmingly Muslim populations, and observed his Administration's persistent statements linking the two, would view the order and each of its precursors as the fulfillment of the President's promise to prohibit Muslim immigration to the United States."

A number of civil rights, immigrant and Muslim advocates filed separate briefs opposing the government's policies. These challengers to the 3.0 order argue Trump has taken his enumerated powers to extremes by banning entire populations from multiple countries, an estimated 150 million people.

Federal appeals courts in Virginia and California in recent months had ruled against the administration. The San Francisco-based 9th Circuit court last December concluded Trump's proclamation, like the two previous executive orders, overstepped his powers to regulate the entry of aliens.

It "fails to provide a rationale explaining why permitting entry of nationals from the six designated countries under current protocols would be detrimental to the interests of the United States," wrote the appeals judges.

The White House, on the other hand, has framed the issue as a temporary move involving national security. A coalition of groups in opposition call the order blatant religious discrimination, since the five current countries involved have mostly Muslim populations: Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria and Yemen. Chad was recently removed from the list after the administration said that country had beefed up its information-sharing.

The current case is Trump v. Hawaii (17-965).The head of the U.S. military's Special Operations Command said Wednesday that Air Force gunships, needed to provide close air support for American commandos and U.S.-backed rebel fighters in Syria, were being "jammed" by "adversaries."

Calling the electronic warfare environment in Syria "the most aggressive" on earth, Army Gen. Tony Thomas told an intelligence conference in Tampa that adversaries "are testing us every day, knocking our communications down, disabling our AC-130s, etc."

Thomas' remarks, which were first reported by the website The Drive, come on the heels of reports that Russian forces are jamming U.S. surveillance drones flying over the war-torn nation.

An Air Force AC-130 gunship was among the U.S. military aircraft used to kill dozens of Russian mercenaries in Syria in early February. The Pentagon said the mercenaries attacked an outpost manned by American commandos and U.S.-backed fighters of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), comprising Syrian Kurdish and Arab fighters.

Wednesday was not the first time General Thomas has been so forthcoming about Syria in a public setting. Last summer, speaking on a panel at the Aspen Security Forum hosted by Fox News’ Catherine Herridge, Thomas said he had told Kurdish-led fighters battling the Islamic State (ISIS) in Syria that they needed to change their "brand" from YPG -- a group Turkey considers a terrorist organization -- to something else.

Thomas called it "a stroke of brilliance" for the Kurdish fighters to add "democracy" to their name.

Today, the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) is the U.S. military's best ally in the fight against ISIS in Syria, helping to take back 90 percent of territory formerly held by ISIS. It consists of well over 50,000 Syrian Kurdish and Arab fighters.

There are currently about 2,000 U.S. troops in Syria.Chance the Rapper chimed in on social media Wednesday amid fellow artist Kanye West’s Twitter rant, during which the latter shared praise for his “brother” President Trump.

“Black people don’t have to be democrats,” Chance tweeted, seemingly referring to West's tweets.

And a follow-up tweet later on read, “Next President gon be independent.

The reaction came after West talked politics during the tweet storm that began Tuesday and carried into Wednesday. During it West tweeted, “You don’t have to agree with trump but the mob can’t make me not love him.”

KANYE WEST GOES ON WILD TWITTER RANT, PRAISES TRUMP AND ABRUPTLY FIRES SCOOTER BRAUN

“We are both dragon energy,” he continued. “He is my brother. I love everyone. I don’t agree with everything anyone does. That’s what makes us individuals. And we have the right to independent thought.”

He also shared a photo of a “Make America Great Again” hat, which appeared to be signed by the president.

The president took to Twitter to thank the rapper for the praise, adding “very cool!”

Singer John Legend, who has previously collaborated with West, also appeared to react to the social media posts.

KANYE TWEETS RIGHT – WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A HIP HOP ICON TAKES THE RED PILL AND DARES TO CHALLENGE LIBERALS

“I love that great, brilliant artists have the power to imagine a better future. But artists can't be blind to the truth,” Legend tweeted. “The defining trait of Trump's campaign and political profile was his embrace of white supremacy. He made it clear every time he spoke. Some serious cognitive dissonance to ignore that for the other x% you might find appealing. I guess I agree with >1% of anyone's thoughts though.”

The posts were preceded by other comments he made. “I imagine there’s some comfort in imagining a future without racism and projecting that onto the present,” Legend wrote.

“Thinking if we just deny the truth, it doesn’t exist,” he continued. “If history is erased, we don’t have to deal with its consequences. However far too many people don’t have the luxury of closing their eyes and ears. They feel it in their lives and can’t act like what they see and know doesn’t exist.”Republican members of the Congressional baseball team returned to Eugene Simpson Stadium in Alexandria, Virginia, for the first practice since the shooting that stunned the nation last year, critically wounding House Majority Whip Steve Scalise.

Offering catharsis and a rebirth, this was the first time many of the members went to the field since the shooting.

“There were a lot of emotions out here today,” Georgia Rep. Barry Loudermilk said. “We never got to finish the practice that we started.”

Arizona Sen. Jeff Flake added: “It’s a surreal experience. My first time back on the field.”

Tyson Foods lobbyist Matt Mika, a former aide who was wounded last year, was seen on the diamond, prepping the field with a rake before the practice.

Texas Rep. Mike Conaway was the first player on the field, seen jogging in the outfield.

Texas Rep. Roger Williams, a former Atlanta Braves minor league prospect, was seen hitting infield practice.

Scalise was not on hand; he is still recovering from another procedure last week related to his injuries.

He said Wednesday that he was eager to get back on the ball field but still had a ways to go in recovery.

The Louisiana congressman suffered shattered bones and damaged internal organs in the June 2017 shooting. U.S. Capitol Police and other officers killed the gunman, who held grievances against President Donald Trump and the GOP.

Scalise sent along a statement: “Play ball!”

Fox News’ Chad Pergram and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Rudy Giuliani, the newest arrival to Donald Trump's legal team, has taken over talks with Special Counsel Robert Mueller about a possible interview of the president, Fox News has learned.

The negotiations between Giuliani and the Mueller team have been called ongoing. The president is said to remain skeptical of the idea of an interview, but has not ruled one out.

In a statement to Fox News, Giuliani said his objective "is to end this investigation and distraction from the critical issues facing our President as quickly as possible. The President has produced 1.2 million documents that is historically unprecedented. We believe it presents overwhelming proof that the President did not collude with regard to the 2016 election.

"If anything else is needed," Giuliani added, apparently referring to a potential Trump interview by Mueller, "we will consider it if there is an open mind as to the merits."

Giuliani, a former U.S. attorney and onetime mayor of New York City, joined Trump's legal team last week and proclaimed his intent to bring the Mueller investigation to a swift end. He replaced John Dowd, who resigned last month.

Mueller has told Trump's legal team that the president is not a target of his investigation into alleged collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election. The president is currently a subject of the probe — a designation that could change at any time.

Fox News' John Roberts and Matt Richardson contributed to this report. The Associated Press contributed to this report.The head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) accused New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo of making "grandstanding" and "inaccurate" comments Wednesday after armed agents raided an upstate dairy farm last week and allegedly handcuffed a man who tried to record an arrest.

Cuomo, a Democrat rumored to be a contender for the party's 2020 presidential nomination, said that the agency "is violating the law and endangering public safety" and threatened to sue ICE if such raids continued.

"The reckless and unconstitutional practices ICE is deploying in our communities violate everything we believe in New York and are an assault on our democracy," Cuomo added. "I demand ICE immediately cease and desist this pattern of conduct, and if they fail to do so, I will pursue all available legal recourse and commit to doing everything in my power to protect the rights and safety of all New Yorkers."

In response, ICE Deputy Director Thomas Homan said Cuomo's remarks were "an insult to ICE's sworn law enforcement officers who conduct their lawful mission professionally and with integrity."

"Since September 2016, ICE has arrested nearly 5,000 criminal aliens in New York," Homan added, "individuals with a criminal conviction in addition to their violation of immigration laws.

"Many of these arrests were conducted at large in the community, which ICE is increasingly forced to do due to sanctuary policies in the state that prevent us from taking custody of criminal aliens in the secure confines of a jail," Homan went on. "[Cuomo] supports these policies at the expense of the safety of the very same communities he took an oath to protect."

John Collins, who owns the Rome, N.Y. farm that was raided, claimed that ICE agents did not identify themselves or produce a warrant before they arrested a farm worker on charges that he unlawfully re-entered the U.S. following deportation. Collins, who said the worker has proper documentation to work in the U.S., said the officers grabbed his phone and threw it — destroying it — when he used it to videotape the arrest. Collins said they slapped handcuffs on him as well.

In his statement, Homan identified the worker as a "criminal alien" named Marcial DeLeon-Aguilar, who "is a three-time prior deportee who has felony criminal convictions for reckless aggravated assault and illegal re-entry -- also a felony."

The incident has also prompted scrutiny in Washington, where Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., has called for an investigation.

"ICE will continue to protect New York communities against public safety and national security threats and it is false and offensive for the Governor to say otherwise," Homan concluded.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The James Comey memos that leaked to the media and were a catalyst for the appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller were more widely shared than previously known, three sources familiar with the matter tell Fox News.

Sources identified former U.S. Attorney and special counsel Patrick Fitzgerald as the likely recipient, and did not rule out a third individual, in addition to Columbia law professor Daniel Richman, who shared contents with the media. The memos documenting Comey’s private conversations with the president are now the subject of a Justice Department Inspector General review over the presence of classified information.

Patrick Fitzgerald is a longtime friend of Comey's and now his lawyer, as first reported by Talking Points Memo. Fitzgerald did not respond to emails or a voicemail seeking comment.

Fox News asked Fitzgerald how many memos he received, if Comey, Richman or a third party provided them, whether they were stored securely because of classified contents, and whether the FBI took steps -- to include his personal and business electronics -- to mitigate the spill of classified information. In the event he did not receive any Comey memos, Fitzgerald was invited to provide an on the record statement to Fox News.

The publisher of Comey's book, “A Higher Loyalty,” did not respond to Fox News’ questions. An FBI spokesperson offered no comment.

During his June 2017 Senate testimony, after President Trump fired him, Comey did not describe Richman as an FBI employee, and seemed to give no public indication the memos were shared more broadly. The former FBI director testified that he gave the memos, documenting conversations with the president, to Richman to kick-start what is now the Mueller probe.

"I asked a friend of mine to share the content of the memo with a reporter. Didn't do it myself, for a variety of reasons. But I asked him to, because I thought that might prompt the appointment of a special counsel," Comey told Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, who asked who it was. "A good friend of mine who's a professor at Columbia Law School."

On Tuesday, Richman confirmed to Fox News he worked for Comey at the FBI as a “special government employee” -- known by the shorthand SGE -- on an unpaid basis. Sources familiar with Richman’s FBI work said Comey assigned him to "special projects." Richman had a security clearance and badge access to the FBI building. Richman's employment was formalized through a memorandum of understanding.

COMEY'S MEMO LEAK CONTACT HAD 'SPECIAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE' STATUS AT FBI

In his book, Comey wrote about Fitzgerald, his “close friend since our days in law school,” and about appointing Fitzgerald as special counsel to investigate the leak of CIA operative Valerie Plame’s identity.

Comey wrote that on the day Trump fired him, “All I knew was what was reported in the media. After much scrambling, we learned that a White House employee was on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, trying to deliver a letter to me from the president. I took a call from my wife, who said she and kids had seen the news. I replied that I didn’t know whether it was true and we were trying to find out what was going on. Pat Fitzgerald called and I told him the same thing.”

He also wrote, “The reasons for that firing were lies, but the letter was real. I felt sick to my stomach and slightly dazed.”

Patrick Fitzgerald’s name also was brought up during the Hillary Clinton email investigation in cryptic text messages between FBI agent Peter Strzok and FBI attorney Lisa Page.

On March 18, 2016, Strzok wrote -- “Thought of the perfect person D (Director Comey) can bounce this off of.”

Page: “Who?”

Strzok: "Pat (redacted) You gotta give me credit if we go with him. (redacted) And delay briefing him on until I can get back and do it. Late next week or later.”

Page: “We talked about him last night, not for this, but how great he is. He’s in private practice though, right? Suppose you could still bring him back. And yes, I’ll hold.”

Strozk identifies Fitzgerald’s law firm as “Skadden in Chicago”, and then continues “Don’t forget that Dad Comey appointed him as special counsel in the Plame matter, and that he was there for Comey’s investiture. I could work with him again (redacted) And damn we’d get sh*t DONE.

Page: “I know. Like I said, we discussed boss and him yesterday.”Michael Cohen, the personal attorney for President Trump, has said he will plead the Fifth in a lawsuit with adult-film star Stormy Daniels due to an ongoing criminal investigation in New York, according to court documents.

The formal declaration was filed Wednesday in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California.

In it, Cohen noted the April 9 FBI raid on his home, office and hotel room, during which he said the agency seized “various electronic devices and documents in my possession, which contain information relating to the $130,000 payment to Plaintiff Stephanie Clifford at the center of this case, and my communications with counsel, Brent Blakely, relating to this action.”

He continued to say that “based upon the advice of counsel” he would be pleading the Fifth “in connection with all proceedings in this case due to the ongoing criminal investigation by the FBI and U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York.”

MICHAEL COHEN RAID RATTLES TRUMP ALLIES: DID FEDS SEIZE PRESIDENT’S COMMUNICATIONS

Cohen asked a judge to delay the civil case 90 days following the FBI raid. Federal prosecutors in New York said they are investigating Cohen's personal business dealings.

This comes as attorneys for the president informed a federal judge on Wednesday that Trump would “make himself available, as needed” to look over materials seized in the FBI raid to ensure the protection of privileged information, ABC News reported.

Daniels, whose legal name is Stephanie Clifford and is referenced by Cohen in the filing, has claimed that she had a one-time sexual encounter with the president in 2006 and was paid $130,000 by Cohen in the days before the 2016 presidential election as part of a nondisclosure agreement she has sought to invalidate in order to speak freely.

FBI RAID TARGETS TRUMP ATTORNEY MICHAEL COHEN, UNDER SCRUTINY OVER STORMY DANIELS PAYMENTS

Trump has denied the allegations.

Daniels has offered to return the $130,000 and argues the agreement is legally invalid because it was signed by her and Cohen, not by Trump.

Daniel’s attorney Michael Avenatti tweeted that Cohen’s filing was “a stunning development.”

“Never before in our nation’s history has the attorney for the sitting President invoked the 5th Amend in connection with issues surrounding the President,” Avenatti said. “It is esp. stunning seeing as MC served as the 'fixer' for Mr. Trump for over 10 yrs.”

“And yes, my record of prediction stays intact,” he continued. “We will keep shooting until we miss.”

Fox News Jodie Curtis, Brooke Singman and The Associated Press contributed to this report.President Donald Trump’s embattled pick to head the Department of Veterans Affairs denied that he crashed a government car while drunk, one of a string of new accusations unearthed by Democrats on Wednesday.

Dr. Ronny Jackson said he would move ahead with the nomination process despite the allegations of bad behavior.

“Did not wreck a car. Should be pretty ... pretty easy to prove that,” he said, adding he “doesn’t know where these allegations are coming from.”

The White House physician said he’s looking forward to “answering everybody’s questions.”

Based on conversations with 23 of Jackson’s colleagues and former colleagues, the review by Democrats says Jackson was nicknamed “Candyman” by White House staff because he would provide prescriptions without paperwork. Drugs he prescribed included Ambien, used for sleep, and Provigil, used to help wake up.

The colleagues and former colleagues also told congressional staffers that there were multiple incidents of drunkenness on duty and said Jackson got drunk at a Secret Service going-away party and wrecked a government car.

White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders told reporters that Jackson’s record has been “impeccable” and that background checks revealed “no areas of concern.”

Sanders noted that he had received “glowing evaluations” including several from President Obama.

Fox News obtained documents showing glowing praise from Obama, calling him “a tremendous asset to the entire White House team.”

The Senate Veterans Affairs Committee indefinitely postponed Jackson’s confirmation hearing, which had been scheduled for Wednesday. It cited a need for more time to investigate complaints made by current and former employees of Jackson about his fitness to be V.A. secretary.

With Congress set to recess Friday for a week, the earliest a hearing could be held would be in about 10 days.

Sen. Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., said Jackson “deserves a hearing and he’s going to get it.”

Sanders also noted that Jackson has worked “within arm’s reach of three presidents.”

“Given his unique position of trust and responsibility, Dr. Jackson’s background and character were evaluated during three different administrations,” she said. “Dr. Jackson has had at least four independent background investigations conducted during his time at the White House including an FBI investigation conducted as part of the standard nomination vetting process.”

As he walked to record his weekly address, Trump was asked Wednesday if he still supported Jackson’s nomination.

Trump didn’t respond.

White House spokesman Raj Shah later said Trump met with Jackson Wednesday, and he said the president still supported the nomination.

When pressed on whether the White House was prepping for a withdrawal of the nomination, Shah said broadly, “We’re prepared for anything.”

The president had backed Jackson a day earlier, saying he stood by Jackson no matter what but, “If I were him … I wouldn’t do it.”

“It’s totally his decision, but he’ll be making a decision,” Trump said of Jackson.

Fox News’ Serafin Gomez, Chad Pergram and The Associated Press contributed to this report.Democratic campaign organizations have paid or pledged to pay more than $2 million for key parts of Hillary Clinton's 2016 campaign infrastructure -- including her email list and campaign software -- as the party ramps up a costly campaign to win back both houses of Congress this November, The Intercept reported Wednesday.

According to the report, the Democratic National Committee will pay Clinton's PAC Onward Together $1.65 million for access to her campaign resources, including voter data. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has paid more than $700,000 to rent the email list.

In contrast, then-President Barack Obama gifted his email list worth nearly $2 million to the DNC as an in-kind contribution in 2015, the report added.

HILLARY CLINTON, NOT ON BALLOT, IS STAR OF GOP MIDTERM PLAN

Former DNC Chair Donna Brazile told The Intercept she had negotiated quarterly payments to the Clinton campaign in exchange for access to the list. She said the last payment initially was scheduled for February of this year. However, DNC spokesperson Xochitl Hinojosa told the website that Brazile's successor, Tom Perez, restructured the payment schedule and redirected the money to Onward Together.

According to OpenSecrets.org and Federal Election Commission records, the DNC has made four payments to Onward Together between January and March of this year, totaling $705,000. Hinojosa told The Intercept the remaining money would be paid out by October.

Clinton spokesman Nick Merrill told Fox News in an email that "paying a rental fee for use of an email list is common practice, and in this case the DNC has raised over $30 million with it, an 1800 [percent] return on their investment."

"Putting the DNC on a strong footing is something that Secretary Clinton was very focused on during the campaign," Merrill added. "She was the first presidential candidate in decades to leave the DNC in the black after a Presidential cycle. The campaign turned over an unprecedented amount of campaign data and resources."

The Intercept report comes as the DNC struggles with a fundraising disadvantage while the midterm campaign kicks into high gear. According to OpenSecrets, the RNC has raised $171.5 million so far this cycle, nearly double the $88.1 million raised by the DNC.

The numbers also show that the DNC has spent $90.5 million this cycle -- nearly $2 million more than it has taken in -- and has just $9.3 million in cash on hand. By contrast, the RNC has nearly $43 million in cash on hand and a surplus of $17.6 million.

Last year, Brazile disclosed she had discovered a joint fundraising agreement drawn up by the DNC and the Clinton campaign in August 2015. As part of the agreement, Brazile wrote, "Hillary would control the party’s finances, strategy, and all the money raised ... Her campaign had the right of refusal of who would be the party communications director, and it would make final decisions on all the other staff."

HILLARY CLINTON CLAIMED 'THEY WERE NEVER GOING TO LET ME BE PRESIDENT,' NEW BOOK SAYS

Brazile also wrote in her book "Hacks: The Inside Story of the Break-ins and Breakdowns That Put Donald Trump in the White House" that "individuals who had maxed out their $2,700 contribution limit to the campaign could write an additional check for $353,400 to the Hillary Victory Fund—that figure represented $10,000 to each of the 32 states’ parties who were part of the ... agreement ... and $33,400 to the DNC."

"The money would be deposited in the states first, and transferred to the DNC shortly after that," Brazile added. "Money in the battleground states usually stayed in that state, but all the other states funneled that money directly to the DNC, which quickly transferred the money to [Clinton campaign headquarters]."

The stark financial numbers have not deterred Perez from setting up a so-called "State Party Innovation Fund," a $10 million grant program meant to rebuild the state parties.

Representatives for the DNC did not respond to a request for comment by Fox News.

Click for more from The Intercept.Ronny Jackson may have declared Donald Trump to be in fantastic health, but his own nomination is seriously ailing.

The president's White House physician always seemed like an odd pick to run the VA because he has no management experience that would prepare him to take over such a massive bureaucracy.

But now the Senate has indefinitely delayed the doctor's confirmation hearing, scheduled for today, and the prognosis is not good.

The president, responding to a news conference question from Fox's John Roberts, praised Jackson but seemed to open the door for him to withdraw.

"I told Admiral Jackson, 'What do you need this for? This is a vicious group of people that malign,'" he said at a news conference with the French president.

At another point he said that while Jackson will make the decision, "I don't want to put a man through the process like this. It's too ugly and too disgusting ... I really don't think, personally, he should do it," and if it were him, "I wouldn't do it."

Was that a signal to his embattled nominee?

Since Trump also noted that Democrats are being "obstructionists," and tied the Jackson process to the Mike Pompeo nomination, it's worth noting that Republicans control the confirmation process in the Senate. It was the GOP chairman of the Veterans Committee, Johnny Isakson, who decided to postpone the hearing. And the Senate is doing its advise-and-consent duty by probing Jackson's background.

"The White House did little or no vetting of his background before announcing his nomination on Twitter," says the New York Times.

Trump did call Jackson "a great doctor" and "one of the finest people that I have met." He acknowledged that "there's an experience problem, because of lack of experience," but said the VA was so massive that even the head of the country's largest hospital chain wouldn’t have experience on that scale.

The committee is examining new allegations against Jackson, first reported by CBS and confirmed by other news outlets. These allegations are that he oversaw a hostile work environment at the White House, allowing the overprescribing of drugs, and drank too much on the job. Trump said he wasn't familiar with the accusations.

Jackson told reporters yesterday that he looks forward to answering the panel’s questions but declined to address the substance.

Jackson, who was tapped after the president fired David Shulkin, is known by the public mainly for the effusive news conference in which he declared Trump so healthy that if he had a better diet he could live for 200 years. Jackson has drawn much media mockery over his performance.

Now it's possible that the allegations will prove baseless, and that Jackson, who has worked for three presidents, will get his confirmation hearing and wind up running the VA. But there was little enthusiasm for the president's pick even before these obstacles emerged, given the deep management problems with a $177-billion bureaucracy serving 9 million patients.

Trump obviously chose Jackson because he feels comfortable with him. But inadequate vetting by the White House has been a problem since the election. The president's picks for Labor secretary, Army secretary, Navy secretary, deputy Treasury secretary, deputy Commerce secretary and many other positions have withdrawn after they were announced.

And there's been a record-setting degree of turnover at the White House itself.

Some of this is inevitable with a president who came from outside government, lacking a cadre of Beltway veterans and determined to make some unconventional picks.

Whether Jackson survives the process or not, this has developed into a significant management problem.

Footnote: "White House officials are cautioning Republican lawmakers and other conservative allies to temper their defense of Scott Pruitt, according to two people familiar with the discussions, in a sign that administration support for the embattled EPA chief may be waning," Bloomberg reports.On paper, there is simply no question: Mike Pompeo is qualified to be secretary of State.

He was a member of Congress for a half-dozen years and has run the CIA for well over a year without any significant missteps.

In fact, 14 Senate Democrats—including Chuck Schumer and Dianne Feinstein—voted to confirm the Kansas lawmaker as the nation's top spymaster.

So the fact that his nomination as secretary of State is even in doubt pretty much boils down to politics. And that's why the Foreign Relations Committee narrowly approved the Pompeo nomination the Pompeo nomination yesterday on a party-line vote, made possible only because Rand Paul bowed to pressure from President Trump.



The Democrats don't really have a case against Pompeo, especially those who thought he'd be just fine as CIA director. It's their way of sticking it to Trump.

Does Pompeo have particularly extreme views? Has he shown he can't run a large organization? No. It's a way of striking a symbolic blow against the Trump foreign policy. This is nothing more than a proxy battle.

In fact, Pompeo appears to have deftly handled the secret assignment that most mirrors his potential promotion at Foggy Bottom: meeting with Kim Jong Un and laying the groundwork for a presidential summit on nuclear weapons.

Now I hasten to add that both sides on the Hill play plenty of politics with nominations. Merrick Garland was qualified for the Supreme Court, and Senate Republicans wouldn't even give him a hearing for a year—with candidate Trump's support.

I would argue that Pompeo is more qualified than Rex Tillerson, who had no government experience and no feel for politics despite his long tenure as Exxon-Mobil’s CEO.

There is a long Washington tradition of allowing a president to pick his own senior Cabinet members, unless the person is blatantly unqualified or marred by ethical concerns. But Democrats can counter that Trump has shattered many Beltway traditions.

Sarah Huckabee Sanders has ratcheted up the rhetoric by declaring, "Look, at some point, Democrats have to decide whether they love this country more than they hate this president." White House officials point to Republican support for the nominations of Hillary Clinton and John Kerry.

Trump took to Twitter to blame the Democratic opposition on "obstructionists."

Even the anti-Trump New York Daily News, while taking some potshots, says in an editorial that Pompeo should be confirmed because he "has solid knowledge of the world, the discipline to oversee complex diplomacy and — a double-edged sword, we admit — the trust of a president who seems to believe in almost no one."

Pompeo would have lost the committee vote if Paul, who objected to Pompeo's support of the Iraq war, hadn't flipped at the last minute, using as cover the claim that he's now been assured that the nominee agrees with Trump's opposition to the conflict.



With John McCain sidelined, the Republicans have only a 50-49 edge in the chamber. Only three Democrats are backing Pompeo so far – Heidi Heitkamp, Joe Donnelly and Joe Manchin, all facing reelection in red states. So he will likely wind up being confirmed by a vote or two.

Pompeo would have been the first nominee for the State Department's top job to be rejected in committee since votes started to be recorded in 1925. The last nominee voted down for a top Cabinet job was John Tower, whose bid to run the Pentagon was derailed by allegations involving conflict of interest, alcohol and women.

Critics who complain about Trump's lone-ranger approach to foreign policy should want a competent manager running the State Department bureaucracy and channeling the expertise of career diplomats. But that, of course, is not what yesterday’s vote was about.Most voters think it is important to continue investigating whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia -- but more believe President Trump will fire Special Counsel Robert Mueller before he’s done.

About two-thirds, 67 percent in the latest Fox News poll, say it is at least somewhat important the investigation continues, and 56 percent think it’s likely that Mueller’s probe will find Donald Trump committed criminal or impeachable offenses.

READ THE COMPLETE POLL RESULTS.

And even though a majority feels confident Mueller is treating the White House fairly (64 percent), an even larger number thinks it’s likely President Trump will fire Mueller before the investigation is complete (71 percent).

Democrats (85 percent) are nearly four times more likely than Republicans (22 percent) to think Mueller will find Trump committed criminal or impeachable offenses. Democrats are also more likely to expect Mueller will be fired, although by a smaller margin (82 percent vs. 61 percent).

Trump’s favorable rating comes in at 43 percent, a bit higher than Mueller’s 39 percent favorable. However, far more have an unfavorable rating of Trump (55 percent) than Mueller (33 percent).

Some 27 percent of voters are unable to rate Mueller, down significantly from 51 percent last June. Two percent are unable to rate Trump.

The poll, released Wednesday, finds half of voters feel President Trump is “not tough enough” on Russia (51 percent). Hardly any (6 percent) feel he’s “too tough,” while 32 percent think his handling is “about right.”

The president’s job rating on Russia stands at 35 percent approval vs. 54 percent disapproval.

For comparison, on North Korea, his rating is 45-45 percent. Thirty percent think he is “not tough enough” on North Korea, 13 percent “too tough,” and 47 percent “about right.”

The Fox News poll is based on landline and cellphone interviews with 1,014 randomly chosen registered voters nationwide and was conducted under the joint direction of Anderson Robbins Research (D) and Shaw & Company Research (R) from April 22-24, 2018. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for all registered voters.Police released a video Tuesday showing a former financial adviser to Hillary Clinton getting involved in a heated, profanity-laced confrontation with several officers.

"You may shut the f--- up!" the woman, Caren Z. Turner, 60, shrieks at an officer at one point.

Most recently, Turner has been a commissioner with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and was chairwoman of its ethics committee, Politico reported. She was forced to resign last week because of the interaction with police during Easter weekend.

“The Port Authority has zero tolerance for ethics violations,” PA spokesman Ben Branham told the website.

“The Port Authority has zero tolerance for ethics violations.” - Ben Branham, spokesman, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

According to a police report from March 31, Turner's daughter was in a car that had been pulled over on Route 9W by Tenafly, N.J., police, but the driver allegedly could not provide proof of insurance or registration. So Turner was called to the scene to help resolve the matter, NJ.com reported.

Police video then shows Turner demanding to know what was going on, and brandishing her credentials as a Port Authority commissioner.

"I need to know," Turner repeatedly tells the officers, demanding information about the traffic stop.

The officers tell her that they are under no legal obligation to provide details because her daughter and the others in the car were all over age 18.

Turner appears to grow increasingly frustrated, and demands that the officers refer to her as “Commissioner” rather than “Miss.”

In the police report, an officer writes that he advised Turner "to speak with the driver of the vehicle for more information,” based on the way she was “attempting to misappropriately user her professional position to gain authority in this situation.”

When an officer attempts to end the conversation, Turner says: “You may not tell me when to take my child. You may shut the f--- up!”

“You may not tell me when to take my child. You may shut the f--- up!” - Caren Z. Turner, in video of confrontation with police

Allegations of a code of ethics violation prompted the Port Authority’s inspector to investigate. Turner resigned after learning of the investigation, the Port Authority said in a statement Monday.

A spokesman for the Port Authority called Turner’s actions “indefensible.”

Turner has yet to comment on her resignation or the allegations of violating the board’s code of ethics. Her name and photo have reportedly been removed from the Port Authority website.

Turner was appointed to the Port Authority by former New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie. A Democrat, she had previously served on finance committees for Hillary Clinton, U.S. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., and former New Jersey Gov. Jon Corzine.

Editor's note: An earlier version of this story incorrectly stated that Turner's daughter was the driver of the car. She was a passenger.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Host of the "Divided States of Women" Hitha Herzog and comedian Kevin Downey Jr. join Tom Shillue to discuss the most important stories of the day including ... Kanye West is being called "crazy" for tweeting positive things about Donald Trump. The gang discusses if it will hurt his career. Then, Hank Azaria, the voice of Simpson's controversial Apu, says he's willing to "change" the character some Indian-Americans call racist. The group disagrees if that's the right thing to do.

Download, enjoy and please give us a review! And remember to listen to The Show Shillue Show LIVE Monday through Friday 3-6 pm Eastern! Find out more at TomShillueShow.comTry Some Of Our Other Podcasts!Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The first hour of the Brian Kilmeade Radio Show on FOX News Talk 9am-Noon Eastern M-F.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Senator Rand Paul (R-KY) joined Monica Crowley, who filled in for Brian on The Brian Kilmeade Show, to explain why he "will do everything I can to try to stop" the nomination of Gina Haspel to be the next CIA Director. Senator Paul said Gina Haspel's involvement in enhanced interrogation "represented a sad chapter in our country" after America's overreaction to 9/11. Senator Paul also discussed sharing President Trump's vision of ending our involvement in the Middle East outside of fighting ISIS and his hope that America does not get involved "in every damned war in the Middle East"

Watch here:Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

President Trump hosted his first official State dinner for French President Emmanuel Macron. Among the pomp and circumstance, the two leaders exchanged views over the May 12th Iran Nuclear Deal deadline. Congressman Ron DeSantis (R-FL) and former State Dept. Spokesperson, Marie Harf, discuss the pros and cons of withdrawing from the agreement.

Wells Fargo met with angry shareholders at their annual meeting in Des Moines, Iowa. FOX's Jessica Rosenthal digs into the company's scandals with shareholder Charles Elson, and the whistleblower, Matthew Valles.

Plus, commentary by Director of Defense Studies at the Center for the National Interest Harry Kazianis.More Podcasts…

· The FOX News Rundown

Long form and in depth story telling of the major news item of the day.

· The Whip Around

In hurry? Start the day with this quick news podcast!

· Hourly Newscast

The news updated every hour!

· The Five

It’s the full primetime show. FREE!

· Perino & Stirewalt

Dana Perino & Chris Stirewalt dishing on politics news every week.

· The One w/ Greg Gutfeld

You know him. You love him. Greg Gutfeld.

· Livin’ the Bream

Inspirational stories, personal anecdotes and an insider’s perspective from Shannon Bream.

· HemmerTime

One on one with engaging personalities hosted by Bill Hemmer.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

A California bill which could result in a ban on books that teach Christian values could pass in the California Senate as soon as late May. Assembly Bill 2943 declares biblical books and Christian conferences dealing with views on homosexuality or transgenderism as fraudulent under the state's consumer fraud statute.

Senior Pastor of Lancaster Baptist Church Dr. Paul Chappell spoke with Todd Starnes about why it's important for Christians to fight back against the bill. "People hate what the Bible teaches and that's absolutely in my opinion where this is all going," Dr. Chappell said. "It's going towards the Bible, and ultimately towards the pulpits that preach the Bible and that's why Christians had better wake up right now."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Dr. Chappell also explained why people who don't agree with biblical teaching should also be against the bill. Dr. Chappell said, "For those who don't agree with the religious issue here, they should agree with the freedom of speech issue here."

Click here for a signed copy of Todd's latest book, "The Deplorables' Guide to Making America Great Again."President Donald Trump has been called a 'nationalist'by both his critics and his supporters.

On Tuesday's show, Fox News Contributor Jonah Goldberg joined Tom Shillue to discuss his new book, "The Suicide of The West".

In "Suicide", Goldberg isn't just critical of nationalism, he argues that the rebirth of nationalism and other ideologies like tribalism are destroying our democracy!

Goldberg however did argue that "a pinch" of nationalism could be good. He explained on Tom's radio show why some nationalist ideas are good, but too much can be damaging.Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

On the day her book, The Light Within Me, was released, "Fox And Friends" co-host Ainsley Earhardt spoke to Todd Starnes about her faith and her spiritual journey.

Earhardt said, "I just really admired some people in my life that had such strong faith and they actually lived it...I wanted to be like them because they were such good people. I asked God to come into my life and change me."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Listen to the whole interview here:Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

The Braxtons stopped by to spend "A Few Moments With" FOX News' Crystal Berger to discuss the 6th Season of their reality series Braxton Family Values on WE tv. The show chronicles the lives of Braxton sisters--Toni, Tamar, Traci, Towanda, and Trina--plus their mother, Evelyn. The women shared with Crystal what life was like growing up with so many women in one house, how they stay rooted in family values in such a challenging industry and all the rumors from divorce, to infidelity, to abuse.

FOX's Crystal Berger on Twitter: @crystalilisePlay Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

Country singer Morgan Wallen is out with his new album "If I Know Me" and joined FOX's Tonya J. Powers to discuss his music career, his relationship with country stars Florida Georgia Line and him opening up for Luke Bryan on select dates this summer.

Listen to "A Few Moments With..." Morgan Wallen here:Play Audio Clip Listen to audio clip.

As CIA Director Mike Pompeo's nomination for Secretary of State heads towards the fast track to confirmation, Sen. James Lankford (R-OK) joined Todd Starnes to talk about whether Pompeo was facing scrutiny for his Christian beliefs from lawmakers like Sen. Cory Booker (D-NJ).

Sen. Lankford said, "We've allowed secretaries of state or anyone serving in government to be able to have a faith and live their personal faith, but also understand they represent people of a diverse background, which we all do."

Sen. Lankford also explains what should be the real purpose of a confirmation hearing should be. Sen. Lankford said, "Secretary of state has always been evaluated on 'are they competent for the task?'. You may philosophically disagree, but the president gets to be able to choose his own Cabinet."

Click here to subscribe to Todd's daily podcast - one of the fastest-growing conservative podcasts in America!

Listen to the interview here:'My Father-In-Law Is An American': McConnell Dismisses 'Wealthy China-Person' Jab from WV GOP Candidate

'Sounds Like an MSNBC Segment': Tucker Rips Joy Reid's Claims Homophobic Entries in Her Blog Were From Hackers

Laura Ingraham said American citizens are experiencing a "tyranny of the judiciary" after several judges "abused power" by overturned policies otherwise deemed constitutional.

Ingraham said that President Donald Trump was within his right to end the DACA program, which she said was President Obama's way to do an end run around a Congress that refused to pass amnesty legislation.

Ingraham said Judge John D. Bates of Federal District Court for the District of Columbia ruled Trump could not immediately end the DACA program protecting certain illegal immigrants.

Bates, appointed to the bench by President George Bush in 2001, gave the administration 90 day to better rewrite their argument to end DACA, saying they "failed adequately to explain its conclusion that the program [DACA] was unlawful."

Ingraham said that meant one single man -- Bates -- could make a decision that would lead to an exponential increase in illegal immigrants being protected by an Obama executive order.

"The very idea that one unelected district court judge could have this type of power should outrage any American."

She said that Trump was trying to "restore the rule of law" until Bates stopped him.

Ingraham added that three years ago, Obama-appointed Judge Dolly Gee of the Central District of California ruled that the government could not detain alien minors in detention facilities.

She said Gee instead allowed the minors to go free, along with their parents in many cases.

Ingraham called on Congress to pass legislation delineating the breadth of lower courts' powers and suggested immigration and national security-related cases be referred directly to federal appeals courts or the U.S. Supreme Court, which both have "far more knowledg[e] in Constitutional matters."

The Five: Kanye's Praise of Trump 'Turning Hollywood & Liberal Music World Upside Down'

Tucker's Advice to GOP for Midterms: Focus on 'Insane' Dem Policies, Not Hillary'My Father-In-Law Is An American': McConnell Dismisses 'Wealthy China-Person' Jab from WV GOP Candidate

'Sounds Like an MSNBC Segment': Tucker Rips Joy Reid's Claims Homophobic Entries in Her Blog Were From Hackers

Former federal prosecutor Joe diGenova said fired FBI Director James Comey is a "dirty cop" who conspired to "illegally exonerate Hillary Clinton."

"The dirty cop is in deep trouble," diGenova, who served as U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, said.

DiGenova said Comey "engaged in a conspiracy to illegally exonerate Hillary Clinton and then frame Donald Trump and Trump associates with crimes."

"[Comey] illegally disclosed classified information to people who were unauthorized to receive it," he said, referring to news that the former FBI director's memos were shared out more widely than previously thought.

DiGenova said Comey's memos purporting to detail his meetings with President Donald Trump and otherwise are "a rather lengthy suicide note."

He also reacted to former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani (R) negotiating with the Mueller team on Trump's behalf.

Tammy Bruce: Prominent Left-Wing Think Tank Dealing With Sexual Harassment Scandal

'Like Being Represented By Luca Brasi': Turley Says 'Reckless' Michael Cohen' Causing 'Bad Moment' for Trump'Sounds Like an MSNBC Segment': Tucker Rips Joy Reid's Claims Homophobic Entries in Her Blog Were From Hackers

'My Father-In-Law Is An American': McConnell Dismisses 'Wealthy China-Person' Jab from WV GOP Candidate

Tucker Carlson said a new report claims a top left-wing think tank spent years protecting sexual harassment suspects while retaliating against their victims.

Carlson said the Center for American Progress has 19 current or former staffers who were victims of sexual harassment there.

CAP was founded by Clinton confidant John Podesta, while its current president is former Dukakis and Clinton campaign staffer Neera Tanden and the chairman of its board is former South Dakota Democratic Sen. Tom Daschle.

Carlson said Tanden is an "outspoken feminist and a partisan" but appears to have ignored the claims from the alleged victims.

"I thought [Tanden] would be exquisitely sensitive to sexual harassment claims, but no," Carlson told radio host Tammy Bruce.

Bruce said the claims likely were covered up because of the leftist mentality that "if we face this or act on it, it'll harm the larger picture... harm our narrative."

"We saw this in Hollywood with [Harvey] Weinstein," she said.

Bruce said Democrats like those at CAP accuse President Donald Trump of "all kinds of things."

"Wouldn't it be embarrassing if they... were currently dealing with sexual harassment [claims]," she said.

Bruce said the liberal Democratic identity is based in "being superior."

Watch more above.

'Like Being Represented By Luca Brasi': Turley Says 'Reckless' Michael Cohen' Causing 'Bad Moment' for Trump

The Five: Kanye's Praise of Trump 'Turning Hollywood & Liberal Music World Upside Down''My Father-In-Law Is An American': McConnell Dismisses 'Wealthy China-Person' Jab from WV GOP Candidate

The Five: Kanye's Praise of Trump 'Turning Hollywood & Liberal Music World Upside Down'

Tucker Carlson ripped left-wing television host Joy-Ann Reid for claiming some of her years-old blog entries rife with homophobic references, questions about whether ideological opponents were gay, and opposition to gay marriage were a product of hackers.

"There's not a single fashionable opinion Joy Reid doesn't have or isn't happy to denounce you for not having," Carlson said. "But, she wasn't always that way."

Carlson said that going back as far as 2006, Reid's blog made her sound very different than her ultra-liberal MSNBC host persona.

"She mocked gay people, people she thought were gay, and opposed gay marriage," Carlson said.

Carlson said Reid lied about writing the posts, later claiming she was hacked.

"[It] really sounds like an MSNBC segment," Carlson said of the storyline Reid has been forwarding.

Carlson said Reid's explanations are "a crock" and that the blog posts in question have been archived by the Library of Congress.

He said that means the posts would have to be retroactively hacked "12 years ago before anyone knew who she was."

"You'd have to be a moron to believe it," he said, claiming that NBC News executives who have defended her story have their own record of "lying."

He said that NBC was not on-the-level when they leaked the Trump "grab them by the [expletive]" tape to the Washington Post, and that they wrongfully "killed" Ronan Farrow's bombshell story about sexual predator Harvey Weinstein.

Carlson said he understands that people's political views evolve as many of his own have, but that lying is an unacceptable route when presented with a troubling situation.

'Like Being Represented By Luca Brasi': Turley Says 'Reckless' Michael Cohen' Causing 'Bad Moment' for Trump

Bret Baier to Interview James Comey: 'Many Questions He Hasn't Been Asked'The Five: Kanye's Praise of Trump 'Turning Hollywood & Liberal Music World Upside Down'

Bret Baier to Interview James Comey: 'Many Questions He Hasn't Been Asked'

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell dismissed a racially charged criticism of his Asian-American father-in-law that was uttered by a Republican candidate in the West Virginia U.S. senate primary.

During an interview, former coal baron and ex-Massey Energy CEO Don Blankenship (R-Williamson) said he is concerned with McConnell's earnesty in regards to the "America First" agenda of President Donald Trump.

McConnell, of Kentucky, is married to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao, a longtime civil servant.

Blankenship said Chao's father is "a wealthy China-person" who has "a lot of connections to some of the brass, if you will, in China."

Martha MacCallum asked McConnell about Blankenship's criticism of 90-year-old James Si-Cheng Chao.

"My father-in-law is an American who lives in New York. I don't have any comment about ridiculous observations like that."

When asked who he wants to see win the West Virginia GOP Senate primary, McConnell said that he "hopes it's somebody who can actually win a general election" - without mentioning Blankenship or the other candidates by name.

Blankenship is currently trailing State Attorney General Patrick Morrisey and U.S. Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-Huntington) in the the latest Fox News Poll.

WATCH: College Student Confronts Pelosi for Calling Tax Cut Benefits 'Crumbs'

Tucker's Advice to GOP for Midterms: Focus on 'Insane' Dem Policies, Not HillaryTomi Lahren Rips Joe Biden, Keith Ellison: 'Stacking the Victim Card Deck'

'Remember, It's America First': Tomi Lahren Says Trump Should Pull Out of Syria Entirely

Well folks, turns out the man the Democrats warned you about is on his way to denuclearizing North Korea. How about them apples?

It’s time for Final Thoughts.

President Trump first got North Korean leader Kim Jung “Rocketman” Un to agree to a sit-down. The president then sent Secretary of State nominee Mike Pompeo - who some Democrats stupidly threatened not to confirm - to a secret meeting with Kim, in the highest-level contact between the two countries since 2000. That was followed by North Korea announcing it will suspend nuclear and missile tests, and close a test site.

Those are some amazing diplomatic victories for a president who some called “reckless,” “dangerous” “incapable” and “unfit.”

Imagine that: The diplomatic mastermind behind Uranium One, the failed Russia “Restart” and the Benghazi disaster underestimated our president’s diplomatic capabilities.

Hey, Secretary Clinton: President Trump doesn’t play by your foreign policy playbook - and thank goodness for that.

U.S. policy with North Korea had for decades been a total failure. Thanks to the namby-pamby approach of past presidents – including Bill Clinton - Rocketman is believed to have several dozen nukes at his disposal today, which he claims his missiles can deliver anywhere in the continental U.S.

Well, that’s going to change under this president.

We’re already listening to the Democrats pooh-pooh his progress, and I’m not surprised. Some of them seem to secretly wish for failure, just so they don’t have to give the president any credit.

Think about it. Isn’t that disturbing?!

And guess what: If North Korea isn’t serious about denuclearization, President Trump will just walk away. That’s the art of the deal. And these Trump-haters need to learn the art of the deal with it!

President Trump may never win a Nobel Peace Prize like his predecessor, Barack Obama. That’s okay. He doesn’t need a prize, a medal, or a trophy. When he wins, he wins for the American people - and the free world.

Turns out our president isn’t a diplomatic disaster after all. But he could be a nightmare for Democratic candidates in 2020.

Those are my Final Thoughts. From LA, God Bless and take care.

Tomi Lahren on Jay-Z's Trump Criticism: 'The President Is Winning and You Can't Stand It'

Tomi Lahren: Blue Wave Will Happen If 'Swamp Rats' Keep Blocking America First AgendaTucker's Advice to GOP for Midterms: Focus on 'Insane' Dem Policies, Not Hillary

Teacher Accused of Bullying Middle School Student About Trump, Fox News

The panel on "The Five" discussed how rapper Kanye West's recent praise of President Donald Trump and black conservative activist Candace Owens is "turning Hollywood... upside down."

"You don't have to agree with Trump, but the mob can't make me not love him. We are both dragon energy. He is my brother. I love everyone. I don't agree with everything anyone does. That's what makes us individuals. And we have the right to independent thought," West wrote on Twitter in response to backlash over his initial praise.

West said he does not agree with the president on several issues but that ideological differences should not always stand in the way of affinity for another person.

"Thank you, Kanye, very cool," Trump later tweeted in response.

Greg Gutfeld said West's recent tweets are a sign that some people are "leaving the intellectual conformity" many are pigeonholed into.

You don't have to agree with trump but the mob can't make me not love him. We are both dragon energy. He is my brother. I love everyone. I don't agree with everything anyone does. That's what makes us individuals. And we have the right to independent thought. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

He said that in the recent past, "people are supposed to stay in [their] boxes" or an "online mob will come after you."

my wife just called me and she wanted me to make this clear to everyone. I don't agree with everything Trump does. I don't agree 100% with anyone but myself. — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

Juan Williams said the entire discussion over West and Trump's relationship is "superficial conversation" and that the rapper has a history of insulting other Republicans.

After Hurricane Katrina wreaked havoc on Louisiana and Mississippi, West claimed that President Bush "doesn't care about black people" due to the lethargic recovery response in underprivileged neighborhoods.

Jesse Watters said the conversation is not about taking political sides on individual issues, but instead "celebrating people for being independent thinkers."

Watch more above.

Bret Baier to Interview James Comey: 'Many Questions He Hasn't Been Asked'

WATCH: College Student Confronts Pelosi for Calling Tax Cut Benefits 'Crumbs'The Five: Kanye's Praise of Trump 'Turning Hollywood & Liberal Music World Upside Down'

Bret Baier to Interview James Comey: 'Many Questions He Hasn't Been Asked'

President Donald Trump will join "Fox & Friends" Thursday morning at 8 AM ET for an exclusive interview.

Hosts Steve Doocy, Brian Kilmeade and Ainsley Earhardt will ask Trump about the latest top news headlines and political maneuverings.

Trump will join the program live via phone and speak at length on a range of topics.

The president this week hosted French President Emmanuel Macron and French First Lady Brigitte Macron at the White House.

Busy day planned. Looking forward to watching President Macron of France address a Joint Session of Congress today. This is a great honor and seldom allowed to be done...he will be GREAT! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 25, 2018

The Trumps recently took the Macrons on a private tour of George Washington's Mount Vernon Estate near Fort Hunt, Va.

Trump and Macron both mentioned their shared appreciation for each other's countries, calling France "America's oldest ally" - dating back to when Marquis de Lafayette helped fend off the Redcoats during the American Revolution.

Trump has also recently praised rapper Kanye West for his friendly comments about the commander-in-chief.

TUNE IN THURSDAY AT 8 AM ET FOR THE MUST-SEE INTERVIEW!

Howard Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump Voters

Teacher Accused of Bullying Middle School Student About Trump, Fox NewsThe Five: Kanye's Praise of Trump 'Turning Hollywood & Liberal Music World Upside Down'

Bret Baier to Interview James Comey: 'Many Questions He Hasn't Been Asked'

Law Professor Jonathan Turley reacted to news that Trump attorney Michael Cohen will invoke his Fifth Amendment rights in a defamation case brought by pornographic film star Stormy Daniels.

Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, is taking Cohen to court in California, Martha MacCallum reported.

"It is a rather low moment [for Cohen]," Turley, of George Washington University in Foggy Bottom, D.C., said.

"And, it's going to be a bad moment for the president," he added.

For Trump, Turley said the proceedings on both coasts involving Cohen present bad "optics" for Trump.

"It's like being represented by Luca Brasi," he said, referring to the violent mob enforcer employed by "Godfather" character Vito Corleone.

Turley said that Daniels' attorney Michael Avenatti is his former research assistant and that the lawyer is creating a "mess" for Cohen.

Cohen "has fallen into every trap that Avenatti has set for him," Turley said, adding that Trump "should've severed ties with Cohen."

WATCH: College Student Confronts Pelosi for Calling Tax Cut Benefits 'Crumbs'

Tucker's Advice to GOP for Midterms: Focus on 'Insane' Dem Policies, Not HillaryWATCH: College Student Confronts Pelosi for Calling Tax Cut Benefits 'Crumbs'

Spicer: 'Really Sad' to See CNN's Acosta 'Making Fun' of Trump Voters

Tucker Carlson had some advice for Republicans heading into this November's midterm elections: Don't focus on Hillary Clinton.

According to a recent report, attacking Clinton will be a big part of the Republican Party’s midterm strategy, even though the former presidential candidate and secretary of state last served in the government in 2013.

“Instead of telling voters what they would do with another two years in office, they’ve decided to run once again against Hillary Clinton," Carlson said. "It worked last time. The idea is that it will work again."

He said the appeal of the strategy is obvious, since nobody really likes Clinton, even those who are "paid to pretend they like her."

Just 36 percent of Americans viewed Clinton favorably in a December Gallup poll, an all-time low mark.

"The downside is, it's not really a relevant argument. Hillary Clinton doesn't run anything anymore — she doesn't represent the modern Democratic Party. They've moved on to another planet. And that's the point," Carlson said.

He explained that a better midterm strategy for Republicans would be to focus on how extreme Democrats have become on everything from gender to immigration to Russia.

"They are insane. Some of them are dangerous. And somebody ought to run against them, not against the ghost of some elderly, retired nominee from last cycle," Carlson said.

"Yet somehow, the Republicans in Congress say they're not gonna do that. Are they?"

Watch his commentary above, with reaction from Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio).

Student Activists Fight to Shut Down ROTC Program at NYC College

Teacher Accused of Bullying Middle School Student About Trump, Fox News

Tucker Debates Former Reid Spox Over 'Reparations' Floated as Dem Party PlatformCaldwell: Pelosi, Dems Made 'Tactical Error' by Resisting GOP Tax Cuts

Booker Echoes Pelosi on Worker Bonuses: 'We're Getting Crumbs' From Tax Cuts

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) is still getting backlash over her infamous "crumbs" remark.

In January, Pelosi was widely criticized for saying that the savings from the Republican tax cuts and companies' bonuses to workers amount to mere "crumbs" for the middle class.

On Tuesday, a Georgetown University student asked the Democratic leader if she still thought "crumbs" was a good way to describe benefits resulting from the tax law.

"As the son of small business owners, I know that it’s helped my parents hire more employees. It’s helped us pay off our mortgage, helped put me through college," the student said. "Would you still refer to the effects of this tax plan on average Americans as 'crumbs?'"

Pelosi said that the tax plan has "some benefits," but she stood by her comment.

"My statement was really a fuller statement that says while they provide a banquet for the top one percent, they are giving some crumbs to other people," she said.

She noted that 83 percent of the benefits from the tax bill go to the top one percent, 86 million middle class families will pay more taxes in the life of the bill and it adds $2 trillion to the national debt.

"It's wrong. It's wrong for our country," she said. "Put a proposal on the table that promotes growth for our country, creates good-paying jobs and reduces the debt. What they did does not meet that standard at all."

Watch the full video below.

Luntz: Presence of Pelosi, Impeachment Talk Could Help GOP in Midterms

Marie Harf: Dems Will Retake House, But Nancy Pelosi Will Not Be Speaker

Pelosi: Trump's Proposed Border Wall Is Too High, 'Obnoxious' in a Civilized Society

ICE Director Fires Back at Pelosi: 'How Dare You' Call ICE Agents 'Cowardly'

Herman Cain on Pelosi 'Hurting Democrats': 'If You're In a Hole, Stop Digging'

Pelosi Suggests 'Mowing Grass' in Some Border Areas Rather Than Building a WallMilo Yiannopoulos Heckled by Crowd, Driven Out of Manhattan Bar

Jordan Peterson: 'You Need to Have Respect' for Trump Supporters

An Indiana man is accusing his son's 8th-grade Spanish teacher of bullying and pushing a political agenda on students.

Todd Hein claims that his son Jacob was shamed in front of his classmates by the teacher at Blackhawk Middle School in Fort Wayne, after he cited Fox News as his source for an assignment.

On "Fox & Friends" on Wednesday, Hein explained that each week students are assigned to translate a news article into Spanish. For one of his assignments, Jacob chose a FoxNews.com article about a U.S. Navy jet's encounter with a UFO.

"She came up to him in class in front of everybody and said, 'I noticed that you cited Fox News on your last article, and I want you to know that Fox News is fake news. It's full of lies, and you're no longer to use Fox News as a source for any of these assignments,'" Hein said.

Jacob said he was shocked and embarrassed, and the teacher gave him a new homework assignment: Google any of President Trump's "many lies" and write a full-page report on that.

After that, Hein said that he requested a meeting with the teacher, principal and vice principal, and the teacher admitted the allegations were true.

The next day, she pulled Jacob aside and apologized, but Hein said he's not satisfied.

A school district spokesperson provided a statement: “Fort Wayne Community Schools does not condone the kind of behavior detailed by this parent. When we were notified, we immediately investigated and took appropriate action. Because this is a personnel matter, I cannot provide details of the outcome of the investigation.”

Hein said he's speaking out because he felt they had no other options, saying "somebody needs to stand up" against teachers who push their political agenda on students.

"This is something nationally we're hearing on almost a daily basis now. It used to be college-level, high school, now we're getting into middle and grade school even," Hein said.

'Straight Out of James Bond': Reporter Explains New Details in Dem IT Staffer Scandal

Student Activists Fight to Shut Down ROTC Program at NYC College

Kyle Kashuv Recalls School Interrogation After Gun Range Trip

Howard Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump VotersGorka: Trump Election 'Scandal' 'Should Be Renamed ObamaGate'

Larry Elder: Comey Must Be Asked This Question About Exoneration of Clinton

Judge Michael Mukasey said he still has not seen definitive evidence that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia in 2016 or that President Trump committed obstruction of justice.

The former U.S. attorney general argued that Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation is at the same place today as it was when Mueller took over the ongoing probe in May 2017.

"We know that the Russians hacked. They hacked the Democrats, they hacked one of their functionaries. They did that [and] a bunch of Russians have been indicted for doing that," Mukasey said on "America's Newsroom." "But there's been no connection made between that and any activity by the Trump campaign."

He added that the memos former FBI Director James Comey wrote about his private meetings with President Trump do not contain any evidence that Trump attempted to interfere in the Russia probe.

"If Comey felt that he was put upon, you would expect to find that in the memos," Mukasey said.

He concluded that he doesn't yet perceive any legal jeopardy for the president, and all the ominous headlines are purely speculative.

"It's kind of like the guy who tells you, 'If we had some ham, we could have some ham and eggs, if we had some eggs.' There's nothing on either end of that."

Don't miss Bret Baier's interview with James Comey on Thursday, April 26th at 6:00pm ET on Fox News Channel.

Boothe Explains Why DNC's Trump-Russia Lawsuit 'Hurts' the Left

Hillary Blasts 2016 Media Coverage for 'Opening Door to Charlatans'

'Very Troubling': Turley Says Trump Critics Mostly Ignoring Comey's Memo Leak'Straight Out of James Bond': Reporter Explains New Details in Dem IT Staffer Scandal

The City College of New York (CCNY) chapter of the Young Democratic Socialists of America (YDSA) is demanding that the school remove its Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) program from campus.

A poster from the organization, posted on Twitter, shows a quote that reads in part, "The absence of ROTC in CUNY prevents the military from taking full advantage of their large, ethnically diverse populations."

The bottom of the poster reads, "THE RICH WILL NEVER DIE FOR YOU. DON'T DIE FOR THE RICH."

Hell yes @CityYDSA. Also that @AEI quote is so intense and so so on point. pic.twitter.com/O3XTRdY28J — Emma Caterine (@EmmaCaterine) April 20, 2018

New York State Assemblyman and Marine Corps veteran Kieran Lalor said on "Fox & Friends First" Wednesday that the ROTC is too important to remove from campuses.

"The left doesn't like [the ROTC] because the left doesn't like the United States," he said.

The school's YDSA has, in the past, been outspoken about the ROTC. According to Campus Reform, it posted another photo on Twitter in February of an Army recruitment poster with the message, "Let those who wage war, fight war. ROTC off our campus."

Let those who wage war, fight war. ROTC off our campus pic.twitter.com/ugrO2EyJ3T — City College YDSA (@CityYDSA) February 7, 2018

Lalor said the activist group is letting its hatred for the military "trump" what opportunities are provided by the ROTC.

"They're willing to get rid of that because they don't like the country," he said.

ROTC programs are offered at more than 1,100 colleges and universities across the country, according to the U.S. Army website.

Howard Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump Voters

'Why Does Mexico Allow These People Through?': MacCallum Challenges Univision Anchor on 'Caravan'

Tucker Debates Former Reid Spox Over 'Reparations' Floated as Dem Party Platform'Straight Out of James Bond': Reporter Explains New Details in Dem IT Staffer Scandal

Howard Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump Voters

The panel on "The Five" discussed opposing messages from two major figures in the Democratic Party over demands that President Donald Trump be impeached.

Rep. Maxine Waters of South Los Angeles claimed in a television interview, "I'm told that 70 percent of women who have been polled say that they want [Trump] impeached."

Waters has repeatedly called for such actions.

Her Democratic colleagues Reps. Al Green of Houston and Brad Sherman of Sherman Oaks, Calif. have both drafted Articles of Impeachment against Trump.

Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel (D), another frequent critic of the president, warned that impeachment is a "legal constitutional standard" and not something to be thrown about in a political way.

"I'm angry at what [Trump's] done," Emanuel said. "[But] you don't just treat the policy standard of impeachment... as a political tool."

Emanuel said that such debate should be held until Trump's actions meet the constitutional "standard" for impeachment.

Greg Gutfeld said Emanuel may also be cautioning against impeachment because a successful proceeding would result in a "President Mike Pence" - who would be "to the right" of Trump on most issues.

Watch more above.

Trump: If Iran Threatens America, They 'Will Pay a Price Like Few Countries Have Ever Paid'

WATCH: Hannity Looks Back at Media's Ridicule of Trump Over North KoreaHoward Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump Voters

Trump: If Iran Threatens America, They 'Will Pay a Price Like Few Countries Have Ever Paid'

Greg Gutfeld said the media's critical narratives of President Trump "flunk" the "reality test," even if liberal journalists are so upset with the president that they need to "break out the therapy llamas."

Gutfeld said many in the media portray Trump's actions on the world stage as "harmful foreign policy."

MSNBC host and former Florida Republican Rep. Joe Scarborough said last October the GOP has a "responsibility" to discuss the "imminent threat that [Trump] poses to the safety and security" of the U.S.

Scarborough's co-host Mika Brzezinski said Trump is "humiliating America."

"That didn't age well," Gutfeld said of the clips, pointing instead to glowing remarks by French President Emmanuel Macron about his friendship with and respect for Trump.

"Our poor media: the sophisticated European adores our president. Someone break out the therapy llamas," he said, referring to reporting that some colleges are allowing students to spend time with the animals as they prepare for final exams.

Gutfeld said President Barack Obama was beloved by the media but not always respected internationally. The reverse is true about Trump, he said.

"Every single narrative the media uses to slam Trump seems to flunk the reality test," he said.

'Straight Out of James Bond': Reporter Explains New Details in Dem IT Staffer Scandal

WATCH: Hannity Looks Back at Media's Ridicule of Trump Over North KoreaHoward Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump Voters

'Break Out the Therapy Llamas': Gutfeld Says Media's Anti-Trump Narratives 'Flunking the Reality Test'

Martha MacCallum and Univision anchor Enrique Acevedo discussed the "caravan" of Honduran nationals transiting through Mexico toward the United States border.

MacCallum said Attorney General Jeff Sessions called the caravan's actions a "deliberate attempt to undermine our laws and overwhelm our system."

Former Mexican President Vicente Fox added that the Trump administration's actions toward illegal immigration have "killed" the "American dream."

Acevedo said the caravan's plan "from the beginning" was not to cross into the United States.

He said they would come to the border and instead take the legal step of claiming asylum.

"We're not facing a national security crisis, we're facing a humanitarian crisis," he said.

MacCallum responded by asking Acevedo why Mexico "allows all these people to come through... their country."

She said that Mexico also sometimes instructs potential emigrants to the United States on the best ways to seek asylum.

Acevedo said the idea of an "unsecured border" is not what is driving immigration, and added that it is unwise to compare any situation to how the Mexican government would treat it.

"Mexico treats those immigrants in the most horrible ways," Acevedo said.

"Why isn't Mexico providing a safe environment?" MacCallum asked.

Watch more above.

Trump: If Iran Threatens America, They 'Will Pay a Price Like Few Countries Have Ever Paid'

The Five: Rahm Emanuel Throws Cold Water on Maxine Waters' Trump Impeachment DemandHoward Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump Voters

'It's Still America Last Time I Checked': Kyle Kashuv Recalls School Interrogation After Gun Range Trip

House Freedom Caucus Chairman Mark Meadows said he is working with his Congressional chairmen counterparts to get three to six months of messages between disgraced FBI officials Peter Strzok and Lisa Page.

Meadows, of North Carolina, said he is working with Reps. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) and Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) to get the text messages.

"I do believe we'll get those," he said. "We believe [they] will be very enlightening."

He said the messages will likely add "context" to fired FBI Director James Comey's claims that he was what Meadows characterized as a "bystander" in the anti-Trump tone of the messages.

Meadows and Sean Hannity doubted the veracity of Comey's claims in that regard.

Watch more above.

'Straight Out of James Bond': Reporter Explains New Details in Dem IT Staffer Scandal

Trump: If Iran Threatens America, They 'Will Pay a Price Like Few Countries Have Ever Paid'Gorka: Trump Election 'Scandal' 'Should Be Renamed ObamaGate'

Sean Hannity said many members of the mainstream media have been left "red-faced" by the progress made by President Trump with North Korea.

He looked back at the numerous pundits who mocked President Trump for supposedly moving the country closer to nuclear war.

For instance, CNN's Dana Bash advised viewers to delete their Twitter app if they were losing sleep over a possible nuclear war.

Nicholas Kristof of the New York Times likened the two leaders to "two kindergartners."

Defense Secretary James Mattis said Monday he sees "a lot of reasons for optimism" about Trump's upcoming meeting with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un.

His comments came after a stunning announcement by North Korea that it would suspend its nuclear and long-range missile tests ahead of the summit.

Daniel Hoffman, a retired CIA senior intelligence officer, told Hannity that some pundits seem to have forgotten the successful strategy of President Ronald Reagan toward the Soviet Union.

He noted that Reagan used strong rhetoric, like "evil empire," while at the same time pursuing arms control agreements.

"It was his ability to show our strength which led to the potential for some negotiations. I think we're seeing the same strategy right now play out quite well," said Hoffman.

Watch the segment above.

'I'm So Sick of This': Lawrence Jones Rips Reporter for Question Trump Called 'Stupid'

'Straight Out of James Bond': Reporter Explains New Details in Dem IT Staffer Scandal

Candace Owens on Praise From Kanye: The Left 'Will Not Allow Him to Think Differently'Rep. Meadows: New Strzok-Page Emails 'Will Be Very Enlightening'

Howard Dean Faces Backlash Over Tweet on Neo-Nazis & Trump Voters

Laura Ingraham said that while President Donald Trump is sending additional ICE attorneys and other resources to combat a possible stream of asylum-seekers from a Honduran caravan transiting through Mexico, American lawyers are holding "seminars" to help those folks potentially fight the government in court.

Ingraham said the caravan initially numbered at about 1,000, while 600 remain now and 100 have made it to the border.

She said that activist lawyers are trying to help the caravan members successfully claim asylum and enter the United States.

However, Ingraham said that those lawyers may be violating federal law - namely 8 USC 1324.

She said the statute reads that "any person who encourages or induces an alien to come to, enter, or reside in the United States, knowing or in reckless disregard of the fact that such coming to, entry, or residence is or will be in violation of law shall be punished."

"When does advocacy for illegals cross the line to committing a 1324 offense?" she asked.

Ingraham said that reported "large group seminars" between lawyers and aliens may demonstrate intent to skirt the law, and therefore present the lawyers with "legal jeopardy."

She said that the media has made a lot of noise about Trump attorney Michael Cohen allegedly being a "fixer" for the president, but have yet to scrutinize these immigration advocates who are also members of the bar.

'Why Does Mexico Allow These People Through?': MacCallum Challenges Univision Anchor on 'Caravan'

'It's Still America Last Time I Checked': Kyle Kashuv Recalls School Interrogation After Gun Range TripJordan Peterson: 'You Need to Have Respect' for Trump Supporters

'Relentlessly Negative': Hillary Blasts 2016 Media Coverage for 'Opening Door to Charlatans'

Laura Ingraham said that not all Republicans have unified behind the Trump agenda, allowing the press to claim the party is fractured.

But she said that the Democrats have exponentially larger problems in that regard.

Ingraham said Republicans like Sens. Thom Tillis of North Carolina have not backed Trump on key issues, while others like John Cornyn of Texas, Bob Corker of Tennessee and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin could not say for certain whether they will endorse or cast a vote for Trump in 2020.

"Any Republican that hasn't been conflicted over this presidency is either comatose or pretty useless in their blindness," Corker said last week.

Cornyn said he "hasn't thought about it."

Ingraham said Republicans like those give people in the press "what they want" -- "a storyline about a divided GOP."

But, she said the Democrats have "no real leader" and unify mostly around the issue of obstruction or opposition to Trump.

"[They're] so far left, they left America," she said, adding that a new DNC lawsuit against the Trump campaign adds to the disunion.

Ingraham pointed to progressive Rep. Jackie Speier of California and others in the party who ripped the lawsuit as "ill-conceived."

She also played tape of Democratic House Leader Nancy Pelosi appear to stammer through part of a speech lambasting the Trump tax cuts.

"That is what real disunity looks like," Ingraham said.

"A leader who will always defy and drain the swamp will never be defeated by it," she said.

Gorka: Trump Election 'Scandal' 'Should Be Renamed ObamaGate'

Gutfeld: Kanye's Defense of Candace Owens 'A Big Deal' - 'He Challenged the Mob'The suspect believed to be the notorious Golden State Killer — who was wanted in a dozen murders and nearly 50 rapes from the late 1970s to the mid-1980s — was arrested in California, officials said Wednesday.

Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, was arrested early Wednesday at his Citrus Heights home, located 16 miles northeast of Sacramento, after a DNA sample matched that of the Golden State Killer, officials said at a news conference.

County records show DeAngelo is being held at the Sacramento County Main Jail and is reportedly on suicide watch.

DeAngelo has been charged with eight counts of murder in Sacramento, Orange and Ventura counties. Officials said prosecutors will seek the death penalty against the former police officer.

Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert said that DNA helped investigators identify DeAngelo and it led to the case being solved in the last six days.

"We knew we were looking for a needle in a haystack, but we also knew that needle was there," Schubert said, noting that despite thousands of tips throughout the years, DeAngelo's name hadn't been on authorities' radar until last week. "We found the needle in the haystack and it was right here in Sacramento."

Sacramento County Sheriff Scott Jones referred to the genetic material as "discarded DNA," but authorities refused to give specifics about how it was collected or matched to the suspect.

The Golden State Killer, who was arrested on suspicion of committing eight killings in Sacramento and Ventura counties, is believed to be responsible for at least 12 murders, 45 rapes and 120 home burglaries throughout California.

The cold-case killer is believed to have raped 37 people around Sacramento and Central Valley and killed two between 1976 and 1978, according to The Sacramento Bee. Officials believed he moved to the Bay Area and Southern California from there.

DeAngelo worked as an officer with the Exeter Police Department from 1973 until 1976. He was fired from the Auburn Police Department in 1979 after he was arrested for stealing a can of dog repellant and a hammer from a drug store, according to Auburn Journal articles from the time.

Jane Carson-Sandler, who is believed to have been raped by the Golden State Killer, also known as the "East Area Rapist," told South Carolina’s The Island Packet on Wednesday she was contacted by authorities about his possible arrest.

"I just found out this morning," she told the newspaper. "I'm overwhelmed with joy. I've been crying, sobbing."

Interest in the cold case was renewed following the release of the late author Michelle McNamara’s crime novel, “I’ll Be Gone In The Dark.”

McNamara’s husband, actor Patton Oswalt, and her friend, Billy Jensen, published the book after her death. It reached No. 1 on The New York Times’ best-seller list last month.

Sacramento County Sheriff Jones on Wednesday credited McNamara's book for keeping the Golden State Killer case public, but noted that "no information extracted from that book ... directly led to the apprehension" of DeAngelo.

Oswalt countered on Twitter, saying that her book "did" help the case, but said that his late wife "didn't care about getting any shine on herself. She cared about the #GoldenStateKiller being behind bars and the victims getting some relief."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.Kanye West can't stop tweeting.

The rapper has been ranting wildly on Twitter -- including several pro-Trump tweets -- following reports that he abruptly fired his manager Scooter Braun.



Beginning Tuesday and extending into Wednesday afternoon, the rapper tweeted nearly constantly about everything from his Yeezy fashion line to Coachella and his daughter, North. In the afternoon, he took the time to send some love to his "brother" Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.



The love seems mutual as Trump tweeted back at the rapper, "Thank you Kanye, very cool!"

Later in the day, the star even had some things to say about former president Barack Obama.

But it didn't take long for West's wife, Kim Kardashian, to chime in and require her husband to clairfy a few things about his political tweets.

She also went on a rant of her own defending her husband's tweets.

Many of West's tweets seemed disconnected or nonsensical and some focused on slamming recent media coverage that claims those close to West are concerned for his health.

The news of Braun's firing comes a few days after Ebro Darden, of Hot 97’s “Ebro in the Morning,” claimed West told him during a wide-ranging interview, “Nobody really showed love for me when I was addicted to opioids and in the hospital.”

He wrote Wednesday: "there's been a lot of fake news so I just wanted to give you the facts. Yeezy will become the biggest apparel company in human history by working with the most genius level talents and creating product at an affordable price. I hired the head of supply chain from the Gap."

He also tweeted about his rumored presidential ambitions.

"Harvey Levin of TMZ your hearing from your future president. Let's be friends. Please never use the word erratic to describe a person who is economically and psychologically empowered."

He also acknowleged that he fired Braun writing, "I can't be managed."

He added: "yes I got rid of my last lawyer why? Because he wouldn't come to work full time. I also asked my last manager to come work full time for Yeezy of course the last lawyer and manager said no. So now I hired a CEO and a CFO and i have two full time lawyers as of now."



West abruptly fired A-list manager Braun, who also reps Ariana Grande and Justin Beiber. According to Page Six, West has recently also fired other members of his "inner circle" following his big announcement of five new albums, a philosophy book and hinting a possible presidential run with a tweet that simply read, "2024."

Sources in the industry told Page Six they are “very worried for Yeezy’s mental health” and worry that he could be on the verge of “another episode.”

In the midst of West's bizarre Twitter rant, it was also reported that the "Famous" rapper has had "explosive fights" with his mother-in-law, Kim Kardashian's mom Kris Jenner. But the momager quickly shot down the rumors and did some tweeting of her own.

On Tuesday, Jenner retweeted a People magazine article that claimed she and Kanye were in the middle of spat and said, "Lies, Lies, Lies."

She further defended her son-in-law and retweeted another article, which alleged the Kanye has been "on edge" and "difficult to deal with" and said, "Nope...not true!"

The rapper also tweeted at People and warned them about tweeting his name and said, "People magazine. Watch how you speak my name. You would love a pair of Yeezys. Don't play yourself."

West's current actions on Twitter are reminiscent of his behavior back in November 2016 when the performer was forced to cancel 21 tour dates after suffering a “nervous breakdown." During the time of his break down, the singer was said to be hospitalized for exhaustion which was triggered by the anniversary of his mother's death on top of stress from trying to balance a tour, an album and his fashion line.

The claim from Darden that the hospitalization stemmed from a drug addiction is new.

But one source told People that Kanye's current mood wasn't anything to worry about and blamed his "genius" personality for his controversial behavior.

“I think a lot of that stuff is Kanye,” the source said. “He’s always been like that. Kanye’s definitely the most genius and eccentric and erratic person I’ve ever had the pleasure of knowing.”The James Comey memos that leaked to the media and were a catalyst for the appointment of Special Counsel Robert Mueller were more widely shared than previously known, three sources familiar with the matter tell Fox News.

Sources identified former U.S. Attorney and special counsel Patrick Fitzgerald as the likely recipient, and did not rule out a third individual, in addition to Columbia law professor Daniel Richman, who shared contents with the media. The memos documenting Comey’s private conversations with the president are now the subject of a Justice Department Inspector General review over the presence of classified information.

Patrick Fitzgerald is a longtime friend of Comey's and now his lawyer, as first reported by Talking Points Memo. Fitzgerald did not respond to emails or a voicemail seeking comment.

Fox News asked Fitzgerald how many memos he received, if Comey, Richman or a third party provided them, whether they were stored securely because of classified contents, and whether the FBI took steps -- to include his personal and business electronics -- to mitigate the spill of classified information. In the event he did not receive any Comey memos, Fitzgerald was invited to provide an on the record statement to Fox News.

The publisher of Comey's book, “A Higher Loyalty,” did not respond to Fox News’ questions. An FBI spokesperson offered no comment.

During his June 2017 Senate testimony, after President Trump fired him, Comey did not describe Richman as an FBI employee, and seemed to give no public indication the memos were shared more broadly. The former FBI director testified that he gave the memos, documenting conversations with the president, to Richman to kick-start what is now the Mueller probe.

"I asked a friend of mine to share the content of the memo with a reporter. Didn't do it myself, for a variety of reasons. But I asked him to, because I thought that might prompt the appointment of a special counsel," Comey told Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, who asked who it was. "A good friend of mine who's a professor at Columbia Law School."

On Tuesday, Richman confirmed to Fox News he worked for Comey at the FBI as a “special government employee” -- known by the shorthand SGE -- on an unpaid basis. Sources familiar with Richman’s FBI work said Comey assigned him to "special projects." Richman had a security clearance and badge access to the FBI building. Richman's employment was formalized through a memorandum of understanding.

COMEY'S MEMO LEAK CONTACT HAD 'SPECIAL GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE' STATUS AT FBI

In his book, Comey wrote about Fitzgerald, his “close friend since our days in law school,” and about appointing Fitzgerald as special counsel to investigate the leak of CIA operative Valerie Plame’s identity.

Comey wrote that on the day Trump fired him, “All I knew was what was reported in the media. After much scrambling, we learned that a White House employee was on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, trying to deliver a letter to me from the president. I took a call from my wife, who said she and kids had seen the news. I replied that I didn’t know whether it was true and we were trying to find out what was going on. Pat Fitzgerald called and I told him the same thing.”

He also wrote, “The reasons for that firing were lies, but the letter was real. I felt sick to my stomach and slightly dazed.”

Patrick Fitzgerald’s name also was brought up during the Hillary Clinton email investigation in cryptic text messages between FBI agent Peter Strzok and FBI attorney Lisa Page.

On March 18, 2016, Strzok wrote -- “Thought of the perfect person D (Director Comey) can bounce this off of.”

Page: “Who?”

Strzok: "Pat (redacted) You gotta give me credit if we go with him. (redacted) And delay briefing him on until I can get back and do it. Late next week or later.”

Page: “We talked about him last night, not for this, but how great he is. He’s in private practice though, right? Suppose you could still bring him back. And yes, I’ll hold.”

Strozk identifies Fitzgerald’s law firm as “Skadden in Chicago”, and then continues “Don’t forget that Dad Comey appointed him as special counsel in the Plame matter, and that he was there for Comey’s investiture. I could work with him again (redacted) And damn we’d get sh*t DONE.

Page: “I know. Like I said, we discussed boss and him yesterday.”A majority approves of President Trump ordering missile strikes on Syria in response to that country’s suspected use of chemical weapons.

On April 13, the U.S. launched precision strikes at Syrian targets associated with chemical weapons capabilities.

Sixty-one percent of voters approve of the airstrikes, according to a new Fox News poll.

READ THE COMPLETE POLL RESULTS.

A year ago, 67 percent supported the U.S. launching cruise missiles at a Syrian airbase in response to a similar situation (April 2017).

Veterans are more likely than non-veterans to approve (76 percent and 59 percent, respectively).

Despite approval of the airstrikes, voters are mixed on the president’s Syria policies: 16 percent say he has been “too tough” on Syria, while nearly twice as many, 31 percent, say “not tough enough.” The largest share, 39 percent, says “about right.”

For comparison, the number saying Trump is “not tough enough” is 30 percent on North Korea, 35 percent on Iran, and 51 percent on Russia.

Overall, 39 percent of voters approve President Trump’s handling of Syria, while 49 percent disapprove. That’s a net negative rating by 10 percentage points. He received net positive ratings a year ago, when 48 percent approved and 45 percent disapproved (April 2017). That shift has been across the board. Approval among Democrats is down 6 points since last April, down 9 points among Republicans, and down 12 among independents.

“Now that Trump has launched two separate missile attacks against Syria, he owns the situation and can’t blame former President Obama anymore,” says Democratic pollster Chris Anderson, who conducts the Fox News poll with Republican Daron Shaw. “Until things on the ground improve, sporadic missile attacks are unlikely to improve assessments of Trump’s handling of the situation.”

Meanwhile, 60 percent of voters say President Trump should get the consent of Congress before authorizing military action. That’s down significantly since 2013, when 78 percent said President Obama should get consent first.

The shift between then and now comes mainly from the number of Republicans saying Congressional approval is necessary dropping 40 points (from 75 percent to 35 percent), and a 22-point decrease among independents (82 vs. 60).

Among Democrats, the portion wanting the president to get the consent of Congress mostly held steady: 76 percent in 2013 and 79 percent now.

“When it comes to dealing with foreign threats, Americans tend to be schizophrenic,” says Shaw. “They want decisive action from the president, but they also want consultation with Congress as well as friends and allies. It’s a tall order sometimes.”

The Fox News poll is based on landline and cellphone interviews with 1,014 randomly chosen registered voters nationwide and was conducted under the joint direction of Anderson Robbins Research (D) and Shaw & Company Research (R) from April 22-24, 2018. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for all registered voters.Chelsea Clinton took to Twitter Tuesday to call out a New York Times reporter for portions of her new book, claiming they weren’t true and were not fact checked.

Amy Chozick detailed her experiences covering Hillary Clinton on the presidential campaign trail in her book, “Chasing Hillary: Ten Years, Two Presidential Campaigns, and One Intact Glass Ceiling.”

The former first daughter took exception to a claim Chozick made about a hair treatment Clinton claims she never even received.

“Hearing there are more tidbits about me in your book which were easily fact checked and you fact checked…none of them,” Clinton wrote. “Here’s an easy one: I’ve never gotten hair keratin treatment. The others would have been equally easy!”

HILLARY CLINTON CLAIMED ‘THEY WERE NEVER GOING TO LET ME BE PRESIDENT,’ NEW BOOKS SAYS

Clinton proceeded with another tweet Wednesday, telling the writer that "everything I’ve heard thus far that you write about me didn’t happen."

“We clearly have different definitions of nonfiction,” Clinton continued. “Looking forward to your (belated) fact checking as relates to me. Thanks!”

This is not the first time Clinton has condemned the author.

On Friday, she tweeted that the opening line to a piece Chozick penned was “false.”

CHELSEA CLINTON PUSHES BACK ON ‘FALSE’ CLAIM IN NEW BOOK, SAYS SHE DIDN’T POP CHAMPAGNE ON ELECTION NIGHT

The book, which was released on Tuesday, included remarks allegedly made by Hillary Clinton, such as after her election night loss when she allegedly said, “I knew it. I knew this would happen to me …”

“They were never going to let me be president,” Clinton reportedly said.

"The challenge on the campaign was that you had a reporter holding the Clintons to a higher standard through a lower standard of reporting," a former campaign staffer who saw an early copy of the book previously told Fox News.

"Amy was not always an honest broker, and this book seems to be more of the same," the staffer continued. "It ridicules people with a smile, contributing little to the public discourse."

Fox News' Tamara Gitt contributed to this report.Former President Bill Clinton “casually encouraged” Donald Trump to run for president less than a year before the 2016 campaign began, according to one reporter’s tell-all memoir detailing life as a journalist covering Hillary Clinton.

Amy Chozick, a New York Times reporter, released her new book “Chasing Hillary: Ten Years, Two Presidential Campaigns, and One Intact Glass Ceiling” on Tuesday.

It's filled with juicy details of the drama inside the Clinton campaign during their frustrating battle against Trump. But one chapter appears to bolster past reports that Clinton's former president husband actually nudged Trump toward running in the first place.

“Less than a year before the campaign started, Bill and Trump golfed together at Trump National. Bill casually encouraged Trump to run, thinking his candidacy would roil the Republican field,” Chozick wrote. “For all his political foresight, Bill spent most of the primaries oblivious that this reality TV schmo could win the Republican nomination.”

This follows a Washington Post report in 2015 that described a phone conversation that spring in which Clinton reportedly encouraged Trump’s active role in the GOP. The new book's account further suggests that Bill Clinton may have unwittingly urged on the candidacy that shattered his wife's second presidential bid.

Clinton apparently did not see Trump as a threat at first, but his view soon changed.

Chozick suggested Clinton “insisted” Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., could “pull through,” but when Rubio dropped out of the race, Chozick wrote that the “reality set in.”

“Bill saw genius in Trump’s economic populism and understood he was the perfect candidate for what Clinton called the ‘Instagram election’ – an era when voters wanted only bite-sized solutions,” Chozick wrote. “Hillary didn’t do bite-size.”

Chozick also wrote that Bill Clinton would go “red in the face” on “almost daily” calls with the Clinton campaign’s headquarters, warning that “Trump had a shrewd understanding of the angst that so many voters—his voters, the white working class whom Clinton brought back to the Democratic Party in 1992—were feeling.”

Despite Trump and Hillary Clinton's public hostility toward one another now, the book details how close Trump and Bill Clinton once were.

“Bill Clinton was the best friend Donald Trump always hoped to have,” Chozick wrote of their relationship in her nearly 400-page book.

Chozick wrote that during the Monica Lewinsky scandal, Trump maintained that Clinton was a “terrific guy” and only criticized his “terrible” choice of Lewinsky.

“He’d urged the Clintons to move into one of his Trump-branded Manhattan condos when they left the White House. They opted for a five-bedroom colonial in Chappaqua instead,” Chozick wrote. “When a Waspy Westchester golf club hesitated to accept Clinton, Donald begged him to join the Trump National Golf Club saying Clinton is a ‘great gentleman, a good golfer and a wonderful guy.’”

By the time Trump became the Republican presidential nominee, the mood toward him was much different.

Months after the reported golf outing, Chozick described a profanity-laced rant from the former secretary of state during a prep session ahead of a debate against Trump.

“Aides understood that in order to keep it all together onstage, Hillary sometimes needed to unleash on them in private,” Chozick wrote. “’You want authentic, here it is!’ she’d yelled in one prep session, followed by a f—k-laced fusillade about what a ‘disgusting’ human being Trump was and how he didn’t deserve to even be in the arena.”

Also in her memoir, Chozick touched on Bill Clinton’s controversial meeting with former Attorney General Loretta Lynch just days before former FBI Director James Comey announced he would not be recommending charges for Hillary Clinton after investigating her private email server use.

“The FOBs [Friends of Bill] told me he probably was trying to influence Lynch, not directly, but just a mild charm offensive that he thought would help Hillary,” Chozick wrote, noting that one source told her “President Clinton is ‘irresponsible’ like a Fox.’”A Manhattan judge ruled Wednesday that kicking a Trump supporter out of a bar does not violate the law – because the law does not protect against political discrimination.

Greg Piatek of Philadelphia claims he was refused service and then eventually removed from a New York City bar in January 2017 for wearing a “Make American Great Again” hat, in a lawsuit against the establishment.

“Anyone who supports Trump — or believes in what you believe — is not welcome here! And you need to leave right now because we won’t serve you!” Piatek claims the staff of The Happiest Hour told him.

SCHOOL DISTRICT APOLOGIZES AFTER TEACHER BANS MAGA SHIRTS

Piatek claimed the incident “offended his sense of being an American,” the New York Post reported.

The lawyer representing The Happiest Hour, Elizabeth Conway, argued that he was not discriminated against because only religious – not political – beliefs are protected under state and city discrimination law.

“Supporting Trump is not a religion,” Conway argued.

Piatek’s attorney Paul Liggieri responded in court, “The purpose of the hat is that he wore it because he was visiting the 9/11 Memorial.”

“He was paying spiritual tribute to the victims of 9/11. The Make American Great Again hat was part of his spiritual belief,” Liggieri claimed. "Rather than remove his hat, instead he held true to his spiritual belief and was forced from the bar,” Liggieri told Justice David Cohen, the New York Post reported.

The judge pressed Liggieri on the spiritual nature of his client's belief, saying the bar staff would not be aware of Piatek’s specific religious philosophies.

“How many members are in this spiritual program that your client is engaged in?” the judge asked.

“Your honor, we don’t allege the amount of individuals,” Liggieri said.

“So, it’s a creed of one?” the judge asked.

“Yes, your honor,” Liggieri replied, the New York Post reported.

The judge eventually made a ruling on the matter, saying the incident amount to nothing more than a “petty slight,” the New York Post reported.

“Plaintiff does not state any faith-based principle to which the hat relates,” Judge Cohen said. “Here the claim that plaintiff was not served and eventually escorted out of the bar because of his perceived support for President Trump is not outrageous conduct.”

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Piatek was suing for unspecified emotional damage and will review with Liggieri to determine whether or not to appeal the verdict.

The Happiest Hour denied that Piatek had been removed in the first place, stating Piatek “was sufficiently pleased with his service at the bar [and] that he added” a $36 tip onto the $186 tab, according to the New York Post. The bar owners suggest Piatek’s lawsuit was a “publicity stunt.”Many traditional civil libertarians have allowed their intense hatred of President Trump to erase their longstanding commitment to neutral civil liberties and equal justice for all – a dangerous move that threatens the rights of us all.

The anti-Trump forces are now so desperate to get the president convicted of a crime or impeached that they are prepared to compromise the most basic due process rights of the president and people associated with him who are caught up in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s ever-widening Russia probe and a related investigation of the president’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen.

The Trump opponents forget an important lesson of history: compromises that weaken the legal protections of our enemies are often used as precedents to weaken the legal protections of our friends – or of ourselves. Some of President Trump’s most vocal opponents might themselves be harmed in the future by the erosion of legal protections they are advocating for the president and his associates today.

Too often, today’s fair weather civil libertarians are unwilling to give President Trump – who they regard as the devil – the same legal rights that all Americans are entitled to.

Consider the issue of criticizing Mueller. Trump opponents view any criticism or even skepticism regarding Mueller’s past conduct as illegitimate – grounded not in fact, but simply motivated by a desire to help the president stave off allegations of collusion with the Russians to win election and allegations of obstruction of justice.

But no one – including Mueller – has the right to immunity from criticism or examination of his or her past record.

Mueller has a long record. He was an assistant U.S. attorney in Boston and the head of that office’s criminal division. He was later the head of the criminal division for the Justice Department and director of the FBI. His tenure in law enforcement paralleled the most scandalous miscarriage of justice in the modern history of the Boston FBI.

While Mueller was in positions of responsibility, four innocent people were framed by the FBI in order to protect mass-murdering gangsters who were working as FBI informers while they were killing innocent people. An FBI agent who is now in prison was tipping off organized crime boss Whitey Bulger as to who might testify against him, so that these individuals could be killed. The FBI agent also tipped off Bulger about his impending arrest, allowing him to escape and remain on the lam for 16 years.

What responsibility, if any, did Robert Mueller – who was in key positions of authority and capable of preventing these horrible miscarriages of justice – have in this sordid incident? Only a thorough and objective investigation will uncover the truth.

A former member of the Massachusetts Parole Board – a liberal Democrat who also served as mayor of Springfield, Massachusetts – swears that he saw a letter from Mueller urging the denial of release for at least one of these wrongfully convicted defendants. When he went back to retrieve the letter, it was not in the file, he says.

I see no reason to doubt his credibility.

This vanishing letter – if it existed – should surprise no one, since Judge Mark Wolf (himself a former prosecutor), who conducted extensive hearings about this entire mess, found there had been “recurring irregularities” in FBI record-keeping conduct involving Bulger, including possible “FBI misconduct.” And the judge made a finding that directly references Mueller’s state of knowledge regarding the “history.”

It is therefore not beyond the realm of possibility that Mueller wrote a letter to the Parole Board that kept one or more innocent men in prison – even if such a letter is no longer in the files. If Mueller wrote such a letter without thoroughly investigating the circumstances, he surely bears some responsibility.

Moreover, it is widely believed among Boston law enforcement observers that the FBI was not really looking for Whitey Bulger during the years that Mueller was its director. It is believed that the FBI was fearful about what Bulger would disclose about his relationship with FBI agents and other law enforcement officers over the years. It took a member of the U.S. Marshals Service to find Bulger, who was hiding in plain view in Santa Monica, California.

Recently a former federal judge, who used to be a civil libertarian, rushed to Mueller’s defense, declaring “without equivocation” that Mueller “had no involvement” in the massive miscarriage of justice. Her evidence is the lack of evidence in the files.

But absence of evidence is not conclusive evidence of absence, especially in this case.

No civil libertarians should place such great trust in government files, especially in light of Judge Wolf’s findings. They should join my call for an objective investigation by the inspector general of the Justice Department before they assure the public “without equivocation” that Mueller had absolutely “no involvement.”

But these “Get Trump At Any Cost” partisans have rejected my call for an investigation, out of fear that it may turn up information that might tarnish the image of the Muller and weaken his investigation of President Trump. Instead, they criticize those of us who point out that Mueller was at the center of the Justice Department and FBI, while this miscarriage of justice involving the four wrongfully convicted men occurred.

All civil libertarians should want the truth about this sordid episode – and Mueller’s possible role in it – regardless of its impact, if any, on the Trump investigation. Mueller also should welcome an objective investigation, which might eliminate any doubt about his role in this travesty. But too many former civil libertarians are prepared to sacrifice civil liberties and the quest for truth on the altar of “Get Trump.”

This is all too typical of the about-face many civil libertarians have taken since Donald Trump became president. I have previously written about the ACLU’s abdication of its traditional role in challenging governmental overreaching. For the new ACLU, getting Trump trumps civil liberties.

It is ironic to see many right-wingers being the ones to criticize overreach by law enforcement, while many left-wingers now defend such overreaching. Hypocrisy and selective outrage abound, as neutral principles take a back seat.

Conservatives used to say that “a conservative is a liberal who has been mugged.” I would respond that “a liberal is a conservative who is being audited or whose kid was busted for pot.” Today a civil libertarian is a conservative whose candidate is being investigated, while a law-and-order type is a liberal who wants to see President Trump charged with a crime or impeached.

I am a liberal who did not vote for Trump, but who insists that the president’s civil liberties must be respected to protect the civil liberties of us all. Just as the first casualty of war is truth, so, too, the first casualty of hyper-partisan politics is civil liberties.Blake Shelton sent out a cryptic tweet about "karma" just as reports claimed Wednesday morning that his ex-wife Miranda Lambert is dating a married man.

"Been taking the high road for a long time.. I almost gave up. But I can finally see something on the horizon up there!! Wait!! Could it be?! Yep!! It’s karma!!" Shelton tweeted.

He also retweeted a fan's tweet which read, "this is what the #TRUTH feels like!!!"

The 41-year-old's tweet comes just as Us Weekly published a report that Lambert is dating married Turnpike Troubadours' Evan Felker.

A rep for Lambert did not immediately return Fox News' request for comment.

Miranda Lambert Stuns at ACM Awards in First Red Carpet Appearance Since Split With Anderson East

A source told the magazine that Lambert and Felker began their romance when the folk band joined Lambert's "Livin’ Like Hippies" tour in January.

Lambert, who recently ended a two-year relationship with singer Anderson East, reportedly started romancing Felker despite the musician being married to Staci Nelson since September 2016.

One insider told Us Weekly that Nelson "was devastated" when she learned of the alleged affair and "had no other choice but to file for divorce.

However, a source close to Felker told the mag that the timing was not so controversial and that Felker filed for divorce on February 16 while Nelson filed 12 days later.

Rumors have long swirled that Lambert was not faithful to Shelton during their four-year marriage, which ended in 2015. Additionally, it's been reported that Lambert and Shelton began seeing each other while Shelton was still married to his first wife Kaynette Williams in 2006 -- Shelton and Lambert have both denied this.

A post shared by Gwen Stefani (@gwenstefani) on Mar 14, 2018 at 3:28pm PDT

Shelton's current girlfriend, Gwen Stefani, whose marriage also ended in 2015 after her then-husband Gavin Rossdale cheated on her, hinted that she and Shelton went through "the exact same thing."

Stefani told Vanity Fair in July 2016 that she and Shelton bonded over through respective divorces.

"[I]t it was like being handed this gift of a friend who was going through the exact same thing at the exact same time," Stefani said at the time.Jessica Simpson fans are expressing concern about the singer's definition of "business casual" after scrolling past a "sexy" Instagram picture on her feed Tuesday.

Simpson, 37, was pictured in front of a fireplace donning a frayed mini skirt, pinstripe suit jacket and knee-high boots — complete with oversized shades. Her blonde hair was parted down the middle and wavy.

"Business casual," the star captioned an Instagram picture with a thinking face emoji.

JESSICA SIMPSON SPARKS BACKLASH FOR BIKINI PHOTO OF 5-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER

The photo garnered more than 50,000 likes and received hundreds of comments. Fans praised Simpson, saying they "love the look," while critics slammed the star's version of "business casual" and asked if she was kidding.

Business Casual 🤔 A post shared by Jessica Simpson (@jessicasimpson) on Apr 23, 2018 at 12:28pm PDT

"For what type of business exactly?" one Twitter user asked.

"You look great. But I don’t think that’s business casual girl," another added.

Some fans then started to give "The Dukes of Hazzard" star some fashion advice.

JESSICA SIMPSON AND ERIC JOHNSON 'ALWAYS PRACTICE' MAKING BABIES, BUT UNSURE ABOUT MORE KIDS

"Not business casual, you look lovely but too informal, skirt too short and boots too high!" a fan advised.

"A little short for business casual in my opinion even if she does look really good," one Instagram user wrote.

"Too casual for the business I run. The unfinished hem won’t work," one added.

But Simpson simply ignored the haters, posting another "smoking hot" Instagram photo later that day — this time, wearing lingerie.

Day To Night #GUCCI A post shared by Jessica Simpson (@jessicasimpson) on Apr 24, 2018 at 7:36am PDT

"Day To Night #GUCCI," she wrote.

"Love your style, girl!" one Instagram user replied.

"'Pretty Woman' vibes," another echoed.

"For what type of business exactly?" one Twitter user replied.

"For what type of business exactly?" one Twitter user replied.A young dog with a facial deformity who spent five years neglected in an Austin, Texas backyard now has a new lease on life after finding his forever home with a woman who treats him "just like my family."

In April 2017, Beaux Tox, a 6-year-old yellow Labrador Retriever, was on his fifth year of living in his owner's backyard without a dog house or a dog bed while being subjected to up to 110-degree Texas heat.

The pup was said to have been born with a litter of dogs bred to be sold, but was given for free to a man who lived in Austin because of his facial deformity. His adopter apparently wasn't situated to have a dog, and thus Beaux Tox was neglected, as he "really had no place to go."

ABANDONED PUPPY WITH MOUTH TIED SHUT FINDS NEW HOME

But his life turned around for the better when Jamie Hulit, also of Austin, saw a Facebook post from her friend looking for a foster home for Beaux Tox. Hulit, who fosters dogs with five different animal rescues, told Fox News she said she "didn't even want to foster him, I just want to adopt him right away."

When Hulit, 47, picked up Beaux Tox later that day, she saw that living outside in abandonment for five years took its toll on the dog.

He had "horrible" heartworms and was a mere 42 pounds — in such bad health that a veterinarian said there was a 50/50 chance he would survive. Beaux Tox was in and out of an oxygen tank for a month while there was "a list of things" he had to recover from before starting aggressive heartworm treatment.

Hulit said the dog "almost didn't make it," and described her first nine months with him as "slow." Beaux Tox was never house-trained, as he lived outside his entire life, and "didn't have manners when he moved in."

DOG STAYS WITH LOST 3-YEAR-OLD GIRL OVERNIGHT, LEADS RESCUERS TO HER

The "first thing he did was peed on the couch," Hulit said. Beaux Tox didn't know it was wrong "because he never had a home."

But, one year later, Hulit says Beaux Tox — who has two dog siblings, named Scout and Riley — is in good health and leading a great life. "He does everything he wants to do," she said. "He is able to live a dog life now."

"I just wanted him to be happy and to be a dog," Hulit told Fox News of her adopting Beaux Tox. Now, she says, "he's just like my family."An abandoned puppy was discovered on the side of the road in South Carolina with its mouth bound shut by a plastic zip-tie.

Liz Heatherly was driving by with her sister when she spotted Norman, a black and white 12-week-old Labrador/hound mix, on a back country road with something white around his jaw. When she pulled over and approached the nervous dog, she realized his mouth was fastened shut and the tie had cut into his skin. Heatherly cut the tie off his mouth and rushed Norman to the vet.

WOMAN LEFT WITH 6-INCH SCALP GASH FROM TOO-TIGHT WEAVE

“We were horrified. I couldn’t believe that someone could be such a monster,” Heatherly told SWNS. “The zip tie had been put around his mouth so tightly, his mouth was all bloody and scabbed. They believed he had been zip tied for between three and four days.”

The pup was also severely underweight and covered with ticks and fleas. But after being treated with a flea bath and receiving shots, Heatherly decided to take the little guy home with her.

The vet didn’t initially think the hair would grow back over the wound around his mouth, but it ended up growing back white, leaving a bright ring on his face that stands out from his black coloring.

Norman is now making himself comfortable in his new home with Heatherly and her four-year-old Beagle, Jackson.

“My other dog Jackson usually hates other dogs but he seems to really like Norman’s sweet and timid demeanor. They get along so well,” she said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

“We’re just glad to be able to give Norman a loving home after all he’s been through.”A deaf and partially blind dog has a new title: hero.

Max, a 17-year-old Blue Heeler from Queensland, Australia, is being praised after spending more than 15 hours in rugged bushland in the rain with a lost three-year-old girl.

Aurora was reported missing around 3 pm on Friday after she wandered off on her own, ABC.net.au reported. Her family searched the rural property, but could not find her.

15 OF THE CUTEST DOGS ON INSTAGRAM

By Saturday morning, more than 100 State Emergency Service volunteers, police and members of the public took up the search.

Leisa Bennett, Aurora’s grandmother, said she heard the little girl’s voice from the top of the mountain on Saturday and headed toward it, where she found Max.

"I shot up the mountain ... and when I got to the top, the dog came to me and led me straight to her,” Bennett said to ABC.net.au.

Aurora was found at around 8 am Saturday morning about 1.2 miles away from her house. She suffered minor cuts and abrasions.

"The area around the house is quite mountainous and is very inhospitable terrain to go walking in, so she'd traveled quite a distance with her dog that was quite loyal to her," SES area controller Ian Phipps told ABC.net.au.

“With the weather last night it's quite lucky she is well because it was cold, it was cold and raining," he added.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Bennett said the reunion was emotional and was incredibly grateful for the outcome.

"I think [Aurora] was a bit overwhelmed by the tears and the howling, but I explained to her how happy those tears were," she said. "It could have gone any of 100 ways, but she's here, she's alive, she's well and it's a great outcome for our family."

As for Max, his tireless efforts earned him a much deserved spot as an honorary police dog.CNN star reporter Jim Acosta is doing damage control after he was accused of taking personal shots at Trump supporters in a recent interview with Variety when he said “their elevator might not hit all floors.”

Acosta, who has emerged as a key member of the anti-Trump media, took to Twitter to defend his comments that he claims were “twisted by some outlets.”

Acosta made the comments during a panel discussion with fellow White House correspondents April Ryan and Ashley Parker about what it’s like to cover the Trump administration and the president’s habit of referring to certain media outlets as fake news.

“The problem is that people around the country don’t know it’s an act. They’re not in on the act and they take what he says very seriously. They take attacks from Sean Spicer and Sarah Sanders, and what they do to us on a daily basis, very seriously,” Acosta said. “They don’t have all their faculties and in some cases their elevator might not hit all floors.”

“They don’t have all their faculties and in some cases their elevator might not hit all floors.” - CNN Chief White House Correspondent Jim Acosta

While many people assumed Acosta was taking a shot at Trump supporters, he said he was referring to “people who threaten journalists.”

The Washington Times headline on the story said, “Jim Acosta says voters too stupid to grasp Trump ‘act’: ‘Their elevator might not hit all floors,’” while The Daily Caller wrote that Acosta said Americans don't have all their faculties. Several other news organizations, including The Blaze, took offense at Acosta's comments.

Spicer himself told Fox News that Acosta's remarks show a lack of understanding of what is happening in the country. The former press secretary said it's important for people to understand why Trump is addressing the concerns of people living in rural environments.

"For Jim not to understand that, and for him to continue to dismiss -- and quite frankly make fun of and ridicule -- people around this country is really sad," Spicer said, adding that it's the kind of comments one expects to hear from a liberal activist, not a journalist.

“Regarding my interview with Variety, my comments have been twisted by some outlets,” Acosta tweeted on Wednesday. “As you can plainly see, I'm not referring to Trump supporters. I am talking about people who threaten journalists.”

“As you can plainly see, I'm not referring to Trump supporters." - CNN Chief White House Correspondent Jim Acosta

Variety senior editor Ted Johnson conducted the interview.

Earlier this month, Trump’s 2020 campaign manager Brad Parscale called for Acosta to lose his credentials after he shouted questions as Trump colored with young children at the White House Easter Egg Roll. “He continues to embarrass himself and CNN,” Parscale said.

Earlier this year, Trump kicked the CNN star out of the Oval Office after Acosta badgered the president with racially charged questions. Acosta has made a habit of grandstanding and interrupting when Trump and members of his administration are available to the media. He has been among the most outspoken critics of President Trump and is a significant part of CNN Worldwide President Jeff Zucker’s apparent anti-Trump programming strategy.

Trump has famously dubbed CNN “fake news” and pointed directly at Acosta, calling him by the disparaging moniker in the past. Last December, Acosta was shut down by Sanders when he tried to hijack a press briefing. Acosta told Sanders that journalists make “honest mistakes” but that doesn’t make them “fake news” before attempting a question. Sanders quickly cut him off.

Acosta has also gotten into combative arguments with other members of the administration including Spicer, Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney and Senior Policy Adviser Stephen Miller.An judge ruled Tuesday that the city of Omaha must release a graphic video showing the death of a TV crewmember for “Cops” during a shootout in 2014 as part of the victim’s wrongful-death lawsuit.

Bryce Dion, 38, was a sound mixer working with police in Omaha for the popular reality show. When police entered a local Wendy’s to respond to a report of a robbery, a suspect pointed what turned out to be a pellet gun at officers, who returned fire.

Dion, who was wearing a bulletproof vest, was struck under the armpit by a police bullet during the shooting, the Omaha World-Herald reported. The suspect with the pellet gun, Cortez Washington, 32, also was killed.

The video was played in open court at the request of attorney Christian Williams, who is representing Bryce’s brother, Trevor, in the wrongful-death suit, claiming police acted negligently. Police Chief Todd Schmaderer said the officers’ use of their weapons was justified, and a grand jury cleared all three officers involved.

[WARNING: The video below contains graphic content]

The graphic clip shows officers responding to the Wendy’s, entering the building before several shots ring out. The suspect runs from behind the counter out the door under a hail of gunfire. When the dust settles, the cameraman filming the incident approaches an unresponsive Dion to ask if he’s OK as police secure the suspect outside.Authorities in Kansas City, Mo., were still searching Wednesday for a man who fatally shot a construction worker who reportedly couldn't meet the passerby's request for a cigarette.

Police released a photo of a person of interest: a black male, about 25 to 30 years old and wearing a dark-colored hoodie with gray pants. A preliminary investigation indicated the shooting was random.

The victim, Johnathon Porter, 23, was at a work site early Tuesday when he told the man he didn’t smoke and asked him to leave the area, witnesses told FOX4 Kansas City. The suspect began to leave, but then he suddenly turned around and yelled, “Y’all don’t have to lie to me,” and fired seven or eight shots toward the crew.

Porter, a sub-contractor with the company InfraSource, was struck in the chest and died after being taken to a hospital, police said.

“We are deeply saddened today after one of our InfraSource employees was shot and killed this morning while working on a construction site in Kansas City, Missouri, for our customer, Spire,” a statement from his employer said.

Both InfraSource and Spire shut down their work sites after the shooting and sent crews home, FOX4 reported.

Porter and his fiancée had recently moved from Nebraska to be closer to their family, the Kansas City Star reported. The couple was expecting their first child next month.

"I just hate the fact that he's never going to be able to hold her," his mother, Lindy Porter, told the paper.

Anyone who can help police identify the man is asked to call the TIPS Hotline at 816-474-8477. All calls are anonymous, and there is a reward.Editor’s Note: Facebook is cracking down on Conservative content. To ensure you receive conservative and faith-based news items – click here for a free subscription to Todd’s newsletter.

Parents in Orange County, California may not opt their children out of lessons related to gender identity or sexual orientation, according to a memorandum written by the school district’s general counsel.

“Parents who disagree with the instructional materials related to gender, gender identity, gender expression and sexual orientation may not excuse their children from this instruction,” read the memorandum from Ronald Wenkart to the Orange County Board of Education.

A school district spokesman confirmed the authenticity of the memorandum sent to us by a parent.

“However, parents are free to advise their children that they disagree with some or all of the information presented in the instructional program and express their views on these subjects to their children,” the attorney wrote.

His analysis was included in a March 29 memorandum that was supposed to be a comprehensive legal review of the California Healthy Youth Act.

The legislation requires school districts to provide students with comprehensive sexual health education. The law mandates that schools “teach about gender, gender expression, gender identity, and the harm of negative gender stereotypes.”

According to the law, students can be excused from the comprehensive sexual health education portion of the law. But it’s what kids are not exempt from that has parents concerned.

The school district’s general counsel said that exemption does not apply to “instructions, materials or programming that discusses gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, discrimination, harassment, bullying, intimidation, relationships, or family and does not discuss human reproductive organs and their functions.”

Perhaps even more alarming is the belief that school districts and the California General Assembly knows what’s best for school children. From Patch.com:

“The courts have held that parents do not have the constitutional rights to override the determinations of the state legislature or the school district as to what information their children will be provided in the public school classroom,” the memorandum read.

Allow me to be blunt – the idea that parents do not have the constitutional right to determine what is best for their child is downright evil. Yes, evil.

Our nation’s public schools have been turned into indoctrination centers by a gang of radical, sex and gender revolutionaries. Our education system has been taken hostage.

As I wrote in my latest book, “The Deplorables’ Guide to Making America Great Again,” we must rise up and take back our public schools.

Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the great German theologian, once said, silence in the face of evil is evil itself. Friends, we are facing evil in our great nation and we must not be silent.

Editor’s Note: Facebook is cracking down on Conservative content. To ensure you receive conservative and faith-based news items – click here for a free subscription to Todd’s newsletter.

Promoted ContentOne of the more bizarre stories in recent memory got even stranger Wednesday when the cyber expert hired to defend MSNBC star Joy Reid was reported to possibly be a neo-Nazi sympathizer.

MSNBC has been stone silent since Mediaite reported this week that the “AM Joy” host blamed “an unknown, external party” for a newly uncovered batch of anti-gay comments that popped up on archived images of her old blog from 2003 through 2007.

Reid apologized last year when other homophobic comments made on the "Reid Report," her blog pre-dating her MSNBC fame, were first unearthed by a Twitter user and reported by Mediaite. Since Reid had already admitted to and apologized for making homophobic slurs, it raised eyebrows across the media industry when she blamed a hacker for the latest uncovered batch of derogatory comments.

While NBC has yet to publicly acknowledge the scandal, the network reportedly distributed to friendly reporters an “undated, extremely vague” report from Reid’s independent security consultant, Jonathan Nichols.

Nichols’ statement claimed he found evidence that Reid’s blog was breached using information available on the “Dark Web” and blamed other homophobic rhetoric on “screenshot manipulation.”

Mediaite’s Caleb Ecarma, who broke the story, dug into Nichols’ background and reported he found that he once bragged about knowing famed white supremacist Andrew “weev” Auernheimer and “the leadership” of the Nazi site Stormfront.

“The self-declared ‘Current Cyber Guy, Former PSYOP guy’ goes by the handle @wvualphasoldier on Twitter, where he posts a stream of self-serious, bizarre ramblings,” Ecarma wrote of Nichols, who deleted his old tweets once NBC distributed his statement.

Once Mediaite’s story was published, Nichols denied sympathizing with Auernheimer in a new batch of tweets.

Ecarma said he used internet archiving services to see what Reid’s defender might be trying to hide and discovered a series of tweets sympathizing with neo-Nazis.

“Like are most of you aware that I NOT ONLY know Andrew (stromfront admin), but I was the principal element livetweeting his release from [prison],” tweeted Nichols on December 9, 2017, according to Mediaite. “If you try REALLY HARD you’ll see that I’m connected to the leadership of [Stormfront]. If you try just a bit harder you’ll figure it out.”

Nichols also reportedly tweeted, “I was at Weev's coming home party.”

Ecarma pointed out that Weev, the hacker nickname for Andrew Auernheimer, actually works for The Daily Stormer, a white supremacist hub that is strongly anti-Jew and home to neo-Nazi rants.

“In his tweets, Nichols appears to have confused the two racist sites,” Ecarma wrote.

Gawker published a detailed report published in 2014 on how Weev became a white supremacist that included quotes from a blog he wrote for The Daily Stormer.

“I've been a long-time critic of Judaism, black culture, immigration to Western nations, and the media's constant stream of anti-white propaganda,” Weev wrote before Gawker’s Sam Biddle added, “What separates Weev from all the eager internet bigots who commented on his Daily Stormer post is that he's a minor celebrity in the online security world.”

Itt would be logical to assume Nichols, who bills himself as an independent security consultant, would be aware that a “minor celebrity” in the online security world had such open ties to hate groups, racism and bigotry.

“And yet, just five months ago, Reid’s security expert bragged about personally knowing the hacker,” Ecarma wrote.

Meanwhile, Nichols' statement regarding Reid was quickly torn apart by media watchdogs and cyber experts. The Intercept’s Glenn Greenwald tweeted evidence that both NBC and Reid’s security consultant have ignored requests for evidence that the hacking claim is legitimate.

The statement that was reportedly circulated by NBC attempts to cover all the bases and even claims that Reid’s old blog was compromised and that some of the homophobic slurs being pinned on the MSNBC star were the result of “screenshot manipulation.”

The statement directly contradicts reporting from Mediaite that said Reid admitted the posts in question came from her blog, as opposed to doctored images posted to Twitter.

Nichols’ Twitter account features several other bizarre comments, including tweets commenting on the fact that he is working with the MSNBC star. He took to Twitter to defend himself, claiming that he live tweeted Weev’s release from prison but finds his current views “abhorrent.”

“I was not aware of any connections to his current bigoted views at that time,” Nichols wrote. “I find his current views abhorrent. I was at his coming home party in support of his legal position, well previous to any indication that he was a jerk.”

MSNBC did not respond to multiple requests for comment.Years-old claims that Morgan Freeman and his slain step-granddaughter E’Dena Hines had a sexual relationship have resurfaced in court as Hines' accused murderer faces trial.

Lamar Davenport is charged with the 2015 murder of Hines, his girlfriend at the time. Davenport's lawyer Beth Unger claimed in court on Friday that Hines “disclosed to Davenport and others that her grandfather engaged in a sexually inappropriate relationship with her,” the New York Daily News reported.

Text messages revealed during the hearing Friday showed Hines spoke about her relationship with Freeman to Davenport.

“I dont ask him for advice,” Hines wrote. “He was calling to ask me ... I blocked him for myself not for you because men who equal grandpa feelings don’t need to be in my life at all.”

KANYE WEST ABRUPTLY FIRES MANAGER SCOOTER BRAUN, FEARS ABOUT HIS HEALTH EMERGE

Rumors have circulated about Hines and Freeman’s relationship for almost a decade. The two denied the claims before Hines' death.

In 2012, Freeman released a statement regarding the rumors: “The recent reports of any pending marriage or romantic relationship of me to anyone are defamatory fabrications from the tabloid media designed to sell papers. What is even more alarming is that these fabrications are now being picked up by the legitimate press as well.”

Hines also released a statement stating the rumors were “untrue” and “hurtful to me and my family.”

Other text messages displayed in court showed Davenport and Hines spoke about breaking up before her death. The texts referenced “outside influences” including her relationship with her grandpa.

BRADLEY COOPER SHOWS FIRST TRAILER OF HIS ‘A STAR IS BORN’ REMAKE

Hines, 33, was found dead on Aug. 16, 2015, outside her Washington Heights apartment in New York City she shared with Davenport. Prosecutors said Hines was stabbed 25 times. Defense lawyers said Davenport was “in the throes of a drug-induced psychosis, and thus is not criminally responsible for her death.”

Davenport could face 25 years to life in prison if found guilty of second-degree murder.

Hines' grandmother is Freeman’s first wife. The slain woman’s mother is Freeman’s stepdaughter, whom he adopted, People reported.A video that shows a Kentucky man using the intercom system in a local Walmart has gone viral.

Forrest Hunter, of Lawrenceburg, was shopping in the store’s sporting goods section and needed assistance. However, there was no employee in sight. After waiting, Hunter decided to take the matter into his own hands, using the intercom system to let everyone in the store know he needed help.

"Customer needs assistance in sporting goods please? I'm the customer,” he said in a serious tone over the intercom.

As of Wednesday afternoon, the video, which is titled “When you get sick of waiting on somebody at Walmart,” had more than 2 million views and 52,000 shares.

Hunter told WKYT that a Walmart associate came to help him shortly after he made the announcement, though the employee was a “little embarrassed.”

"A guy walked up and asked if I️ needed any help. I️ said, 'How’d you know?' Then I️ bought my hunting license," Hunter told the news station.

Hunter allegedly didn’t receive any backlash from Walmart for using intercom, WKYT reported.NFL players reportedly defended Colin Kaepernick and blasted league owners during a rare face-to-face meeting last October amid widespread public criticism over a national anthem protest movement that was started by the ex-49ers quarterback.

In a room at NFL headquarters in New York City, the players, who sat in alternating seats with the league’s 30 owners at a large table, demanded to know why Kaepernick was, they believed, being blackballed. The quarterback has not taken the field in an NFL game since the 2016 season, when he began kneeling during the Star-Spangled Banner to protest perceived police brutality against African-Americans.

“I feel like he was hung out to dry,” Eric Reid, a former teammate of Kaepernick who has also kneeled, told the room, according to the New York Times. “Everyone in here is talking about how much they support us. Nobody stepped up and said we support Colin’s right to do this. We all let him become Public Enemy No. 1 in this country, and he still doesn’t have a job.”

Retired wide receiver Anquan Boldin also said the owners needed to let “people know it’s not just the players that care about these issues, but the owners, too.”

Philadelphia Eagles defensive lineman Chris Long added: "we all agree in this room as players that he should be on a roster.”

In an audio recording of the meeting obtained by the New York Times, Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie was quoted as saying that fighting for social justice doesn’t revolve around one person.

Other owners, such as the Houston Texans’ Bob McNair, were more blunt, telling the players to end the protest.

“You fellas need to ask your compadres, 'Fellas, stop that other business, let’s go out and do something that really produces positive results,' and we’ll help you,” he said, according to the newspaper.

Following the meeting, the league issued a statement that was less contentious than the words being exchanged in the New York office.

“Today owners and players had a productive meeting focused on how we can work together to promote positive social change and address inequality in our communities,” it said. “NFL executives and owners joined NFLPA executives and player leaders to review and discuss plans to utilize our platform to promote equality and effectuate positive change. We agreed that these are common issues and pledged to meet again to continue this work together.”It makes perfect sense that President Trump honored President Emmanuel Macron of France with the first official state visit of the Trump presidency this week.

Both presidents are committed to dramatic change in their own countries. Both are businessmen and value the free market as a source of innovation, progress and wealth. Both are committed to defeating Islamist terrorists, and they have recently proven how strong their alliance is with the allied attack in Syria.

President Macron was very impressive in his interview with “Fox News Sunday” host Chris Wallace last weekend. If you take a few minutes to watch or read Macron’s clear, thoughtful answers to Chris, you will better understand why he was elected president of France.

Macron is smart and charismatic. He is self-confident, having been successful in business, government and politics. He also has a clear sense of how France needs to change if it is to be competitive in the modern world.

In a sense, Presidents Trump and Macron are both trying to drain their respective country’s swamp.

The American swamp is more bureaucratic, whereas the French swamp is more labor union-centered. But both are hostile to popular reforms and destructive to economic growth and allowing the average person to have freedom of action.

That President Trump would find his favored foreign leader in Paris may come as a surprise to many Americans. Yet, a strong American alliance with France is historically appropriate.

As President Trump pointed out during the state arrival ceremony at the White House Tuesday, France is “our oldest ally and … truly one of our great allies.”

Macron also acknowledged that the bonds shared by our countries “are based upon our deep attachment to freedom and peace.”

As President Macron noted in his address to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday, there are only two portraits hanging in the House Chamber in the Capitol building. One is of President George Washington, the father of our country. The other is of French General Marquis de Lafayette.

Congress recognized long ago that without Lafayette’s help – and through him the help of the French government – the Americans could never have the Revolutionary War that gave us our independence from Great Britain.

Indeed, it was French arms, French ammunition, French money, French troops and – at Yorktown – the French Navy that made it possible for the Continental Army to finally defeat the British.

Americans came to the aid of France twice in the 20th century, during World War I and World War II. We remained loyal allies in the years following World War II, consistently working together to prevent the expansion of the Soviet Union into Western Europe.

President Macron is at least as much of a change agent as President Trump. His book, “Revolution,” which was a best seller in France, outlined a bold program of reform. To this extent, it resembled former French President Nicolas Sarkozy’s call for change in his book, “Testimony: France in the Twenty-first Century,” published a few months before Sarkozy was elected president.

Sarkozy began as an intriguing reformer and charismatic leader of tremendous energy. In some ways, his rise resembled Macron’s. However, in the end, the French popular resistance to change – combined with Sarkozy’s inability to develop and communicate a consistent reform program – doomed him to frustration.

Macron clearly learned a lot from Sarkozy’s experience. When Macron ran for president, he created an entire political party. Fifty percent of the candidates he recruited are men and 50 percent are women.

Likewise, more than half of Macron’s recruits have never previously held elected office. Not only did Macron win the presidency, but his party won an absolute majority of the seats in the parliamentary elections. Thus, Macron has a much greater ability to implement reforms than Sarkozy had.

Despite Macron’s parliamentary advantage, he faces one challenge that President Trump does not have to overcome. There is a long tradition of French unions and other groups mobilizing and disrupting life and work. The rail unions are calling for a steady series of disruptive strikes that will make life miserable in France.

Among Macron’s opponents, there is a vivid memory of the coalition that came together in 1968 to protest President Charles de Gaulle’s programs and ultimately, a year later, drive him from office.

Since de Gaulle was the hero of French liberation in World War II and the savior of France from the Nazis, and again 13 years later in founding the Fifth Republic, being able to defeat him was an extraordinary, historic event.

That memory of defying and defeating authority remains deep within French society. It is the greatest threat Macron faces.

President Trump, on the other hand, faces a much more hostile news media (Macron was elected as the darling of the press).

In addition, President Trump inherited a Republican Party in which a large block opposed him –and many still do.

However, the United States has a much larger, more dynamic economy than France, and President Trump has a lot of momentum from economic growth and from successfully pushing back regulations, cutting taxes and appointing conservative judges.

These are the two leading reformers on the planet today, and I suspect both men will feel strengthened and emboldened by the time they have spent together this week.In a move that has baffled people around the world, Britain is engaged in a fight with Tom Evans and Kate James to deny life support to their hospitalized 23-month-old son, Alfie – condemning him to death, even though the toddler’s parents want desperately to keep him alive.

Two days ago, Pope Francis stepped in and offered Alfie care in Italy. The Italian government went as far as granting citizenship to Alfie in an attempt to have him immediately transferred to Italy.

But the British hospital where Alife is staying refused to allow the transfer and the parents sought judgement from the Family Division of the High Court in Manchester. A judge ruled Tuesday that the toddler, who was taken off life support on Monday, is too ill to travel to Vatican City in Rome for treatment.

Alfie’s parents appealed that ruling to Britain’s Court of Appeal, but on Wednesday three judges on that that court rejected the parent’s request to overturn the lower court ruling denying the transfer of Alfie.

The abject insanity of it all – the argument that the toddler may die if he travels so best to kill him in Britain – is what has turned the case of Alfie Evans into a worldwide story.

One of the key facts about Alfie is that no one knows what is ailing him. This alone should be a reason to keep him alive. His lack of definitive diagnosis should mean that, at minimum, he be kept alive until doctors can figure it out.

The confidence with which doctors are proclaiming Alfie has no chance to improve might make sense if they knew what was wrong with him in the first place. That they don’t, and are letting him die anyway, is damning.

The hospital, and those who support ending all treatment for Alfie, say that his quality of life is poor and therefore he should be allowed to die ostensibly “with dignity.” But the idea that those who have a less-than-ideal quality of life should be killed is barbaric.

We treat life as something we can design and perfect. Babies with Down syndrome are being aborted out of existence because we’ve decided that the only high quality of life is the kind that we ourselves enjoy.

The desire to rid ourselves of imperfect humans cheapens life. Perhaps Alfie Evans will never have what most people would consider a normal life. But that’s irrelevant to whether he should be killed.

A “normal” life is often imperfect. If they refuse to keep Alfie alive now, will they soon come for your grandfather with the oxygen tank or your mother who has chronic pain? When someone else gets to decide who is living the ideal life, how many of us will die?

Alfie has defied the odds in remaining alive. Why not give him the chance to fight for his life, and for his parents to know they did everything they could to save their son? Britain needs to answer this question for Alfie and all the Alfies still to come.Rapper Kanye West recently committed an act of cultural heresy when he tweeted, “I love the way Candace Owens thinks.” Donald Trump supporters like Owens, a writer, actress and conservative commentator, have little standing in the hip-hop world, much less in the mainstream black political consensus.

Reactions to West’s tweet ranged from dismissive to contemptuous. Among his detractors were Twitter activist Shaun King, and actor Tom Arnold. To his credit, West is standing by his original comment, tweeting, “Constantly bringing up the past keeps you stuck there,” “self-victimization is a disease,” and “demonization is metastasizing.” He also vocalized support for the President during a subsequent radio appearance, sparking even more outrage.

The essence of Owens’s (and West’s) message is that the obsessive focus on historical racism as the determining factor in the lives of American blacks today victimizes them by stripping them of individual agency. Candace Owens is certainly not the first black thinker to express such ideas. Thomas Sowell, Shelby Steele, Walter E. Williams, and my Manhattan Institute colleague, Jason Riley, have made similar arguments. As Jason D. Hill wrote in Commentary, in a response to Ta-Nahesi Coates’s victimhood opus, “Between the World and Me:"

I am saddened by your conviction that white people wield such a great deal of metaphysical power over the exercise of your own agency. In making an enemy of the Dream that is a constitutive feature of American identity, you have irrevocably alienated yourself from the redemptive hope, the inclusive unity, and the faith and charity that are necessary for America to move ever closer to achieving moral excellence. Sadder still, you have condemned the unyielding confidence in self that the Dream inspires.

West’s rejection of such a worldview represents a threat to the ideological monopoly that “social justice warriors” and Black Lives Matter advocates have enjoyed in the hip-hop universe.

From its inception, the genre has generally reflected the left-wing consensus that minority communities are hapless victims of institutionalized racism and that individuals have no say in their destiny. For example, Big Pun’s “Capital Punishment” lays the woes of the ghetto at the feet of a government “system so organized, they’ll get to you and who you runnin’ with.” In “Murder to Excellence,” West himself asserts that the lower “life expectancy for black guys” reflects that “the system’s working effectively.”

But hip-hop artists have also expressed frustration with their communities for playing a role in perpetuating negative social conditions that define much of black America.

In “The Story of O.J.,” Jay-Z argues that young blacks reject bourgeois values like financial literacy and personal discipline to the detriment of themselves and future generations. “You wanna know what’s more important than throwin’ away money at a strip club?” Jay-Z asks. “Credit./ You ever wonder why Jewish people own all the property in America? This how they did it.”

In “44 More,” Logic chastises rappers for their glorification of frivolous spending: “You in the club throwin’ dollars/ but I’m savin’ mine so my kids go to college.” And in “The Blacker the Berry,” Kendrick Lamar highlights the hypocrisy of those who over-identify with official martyrs while ignoring the fact that most murdered young black men die at the hands of their fellows. “So why did I weep when Trayvon Martin was in the street?” Lamar asks, “when gang banging make me kill a n---- blacker than me?/ Hypocrite.”

Conservatives and others who reject the liberal narrative of what it means to be black in America should be heartened by West’s tweets and by other examples of prominent hip-hop artists who have recognized the importance of individual initiative in uplifting minority communities.

West’s tweets could expose his vast audience to conservative arguments with which it is largely unfamiliar.

West may be dismissed as an eccentric – and his newfound rhetoric may or may not prove short-lived – but if even only a few of his many fans reject the victimhood narrative as a result and accept that personal responsibility illuminates the path to excellence, then it will be to the good.

This article is adapted from the Manhattan Institute's City Journal.I realize that every time I discuss the opioid crisis with someone, I find that they often don’t know all the facts. And maybe, neither do I. But I try.

So, my goal here is to present all the stuff that I’ve read recently, with links. And I quote the articles, extensively, so you can see what I see, and not depend on my words alone.

But I must note: this article below is biased. The sources I’m using were sent to me by people upset by the media narratives regarding opioids. So the perspective here is not “fair and balanced,” but rather balancing the other narratives already out there.

Am I 100 percent certain that all of this is correct? Nope.

But I think it’s important to hear the other side, before we start punishing the wrong people.

So here are the facts:

As opioid prescriptions decline, deaths related to opioids spike.

“The opposing trends show the folly of tackling the ‘opioid crisis’ by restricting access to pain medication,” writes the great Jacob Sullum, in Reason Magazine. Sullum offers the reader a graph, showing that death does not decline with a drop in prescriptions. “To the contrary, it has risen sharply in recent years, driven by dramatic increases in deaths involving heroin (orange) and illicit fentanyl…”

“The crackdown on pain pills not only has not reversed the upward trend in opioid-related deaths,” adds Sullum, “It is contributing to it by driving nonmedical users into the black market, where the drugs are more dangerous because their purity and potency are inconsistent and unpredictable.”

Opioid use isn’t the problem. Drug abuse, involving multiple drugs, is.

Check out this fact: the California Department of Health & Human Services published a paper looking at toxicology data from Marin County -- particularly those people who had died from any drug. And the average number of drugs found in all overdoses was six. Not one… but six!!

In short, deaths from opioids often involve other substances. Meaning, this is about chronic abuse of multiple drugs – not a cancer or pain patient trying to get through the day.

What this also means, is that the numbers you often hear about opioid deaths aren’t really as large as you think. If you remove illegal drugs like heroin and fentanyl, the new numbers may be much lower. How low? Hard to tell, since the reporting is so murky.

Roughly only one percent of patients become addicted to painkillers

If you listened to politicians and the media – an overdose begins with a construction worker who injures his neck. He has surgery, and then is put on pills. Quickly he becomes a junkie, runs out of pills and turns to street drugs. He’s found dead.

Not really. Fact is, pain patients rarely become addicted. According to Reason Magazine, “A 2018 study found that just 1 percent of people who took prescription pain medication following surgery showed signs of "opioid misuse," a broader category than addiction.”

And the mag adds, “Even when patients take opioids for chronic pain, only a small minority of them become addicted. The risk of fatal poisoning is even lower—on the order of two-hundredths of a percent annually, judging from a 2015 study.”

And here’s this from Politico, which has a slightly higher percentage of addiction: “According to a 2016 national survey conducted by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, 87.1 million U.S. adults used a prescription opioid—whether prescribed directly by a physician or obtained illegally…Only 1.6 million of them, or about 2 percent, developed a “pain reliever use disorder,” which includes behaviors ranging from overuse to overt addiction.”

Still, despite these facts, we hear “opioid epidemic,” which might serve to hurt cancer and pain patients, by restricting access. The “epidemic” label scares doctors with threats of investigation, monitoring of pharmacists, while creating limits on how many pills can be given. This, potentially, punishes the lawful.

Does this remind you of anything? Yep – the debate over guns. Friends of mine who are gun rights advocates will demand a drug ban. They can’t see their own hypocrisy. Whether its guns or medications (both products with inherent risks), you don’t punish the lawful, for the lawless. Instead you try to tag the abuser or the criminal, and leave the law-abiders alone.

Take a look at another piece from CATO, which suggests the war on “drugs,” is really a war on “patients.” And we’re letting it happen because we’re so used to blaming, rather than fixing.

Here’s the nugget: “A January 2018 study in BMJ by researchers at Harvard and Johns Hopkins examined 568,000 opioid naïve patients prescribed opioids for acute and postoperative pain from 2008 to 2016 and found a total “misuse” rate (all “misuse” diagnostic codes) of just 0.6 percent. And researchers at the University of North Carolina reported in 2016 on 2.2 million residents of the state who were prescribed opioids, where they found an overdose rate of 0.022 percent.”

Reformulating prescription pills doesn’t help either.

Roughly 8 years ago, the popular opioid OxyContin was remade to make it harder to abuse. What happened?

Heroin use soared. Between 2001 and 2010, there were roughly 2000 to 3000 deaths by heroin. But then it shot up to 10,000 from 2010 to 2015. Implication: the overdoses were not caused by pills, but perhaps a scarcity of pills.

“During the ensuing five years, OxyContin abuse dropped and the strict restrictions we now see on opioid pills began to take hold. The result? Between 2010-2015 opioid overdose deaths in the US increased by 65%, roughly 13,000. And…that increase was entirely due to injectable drugs like heroin or fentanyl. “

Equating the potency of opioids with heroin creates hysteria that hurts patients

It’s true that basic opioid pills and heroin actually hit the same brain receptors. But heroin doses used by addicts packs way more punch than opioids. And while it’s practically impossible for one hydrocodone pill to kill you – a heroin user can die from one injection. By conflating these two types of drugs, we make it sound like pills are as immediately lethal as what comes from the syringe.

They may belong to the same class of drugs, and “drug overdose deaths” groups these drugs together, but it’s a messy classification.

To quote ASCH:

“All opioids together (including heroin) killed 30,000 people. The number of deaths from prescription opioids—the target of the current crusade— was about 17,000— half the number killed by accidental falls. Are we having an "accidental fall epidemic?" Why not?”

“Prescription pain medicines are much more difficult to get than 7 years ago, and the only result has been suffering by pain patients and no benefit.”

The best way to save lives is for patients to be able to predict the potency of the drug delivery system.

When I drink wine, I know when to stop. The modulated alcohol delivery creeps up on your own system, giving you time to slow down, and stop.

When I used to smoke, I understood what I needed to get me to “that point.” How many cigarettes did I need to make me feel good? Generally, one or two. The fact that nicotine was divided into 20 uniform delivery systems (a pack of cigs), allowed me to figure out how far I wanted to go, before getting nauseous. By reducing prescriptions of opioids, you force people into the wild west of street meds, where no one knows what potency they’re getting. One pill could end it all, for you, on the street (but not from the pharmacy).

As Reason puts it, the increases in deaths are “related to heroin and illicit fentanyl, which are more dangerous than legally produced opioids because their potency is unpredictable.”

The CDC and others are exaggerating the numbers of overdoses by pills.

I’ll just quote this from Circa: “According to a recent article written by CDC officials in the American Journal of Public Health, death certificate data does not always differentiate between illegally and legally obtained drugs, so a fatal overdose involving illicitly manufactured fentanyl could have been counted as a legal opioid prescription death.

Because of this, the total deaths from prescription opioids would have appeared to be over 32,000 in 2016, but the numbers were probably closer to about 17,000, and the CDC said they changed their method of calculating these deaths in 2015 to account for the increased availability of illicit fentanyl.”

Inflated numbers have created a panic about prescription opioids, leading to an environment where chronic pain patients are targeted.

Pain patients are committing suicide because their paid meds are being taken from them.

This is from Vice:

"I've seen a published list that heavily emphasizes publicly reported events, which includes between 20 and 30 suicides," says Stefan Kertesz, associate professor of preventive medicine at the University of Alabama.”

“"Widespread suicidal ideation should be seen as a signal of a major risk," he says.”

The government is now running interference between doctor and patient.

Currently, 17 states have laws that restrict opioid prescriptions; there are more to come. Florida Gov. Rick Scott just proposed a three-day limit on prescribed opioids; Massachusetts limits patients to a 7-day supply, and so on.

This is not entirely logical, when you consider surgical recovery. All post-surgical pain is different — as is patient response to meds.

This is from the Las Vegas Review-Journal: “For example, the effect of a drug on an individual is directly related to the weight of the patient. No dose of any drug will produce the same effect in a 100-pound woman as in a 300-pound man.”

Even more, drug metabolism differs. “It has been shown that the metabolism of opioids can vary as much as 15-fold from one individual to the next. This means that the same dose of a medicine could be too high for one person while at the same time being too low for another, regardless of weight.”

The New York Times is just making it worse.

In a recent piece, the paper says that the only people who should have access to opioids, are those who are going to die anyway. Forget anyone with gunshot wounds, broken legs, or surgery pain! Nope, you can only have the drug, if you’re doomed. I’d swear right now, but it would only make work for the copy editor.

So, as boring as this article might be -- I tried to corral research you might not have seen, and slapped it together, so you can at least hear the other side.

It’s not an elegant piece. It’s not funny. But I hope it’s helpful.

I also realize that there are people who are gaming the system – using legitimate meds to feed a recreational addiction.

That’s life.

If you create something effective, there will always be an accompanying, corrupting influence. You create a currency, there will be counterfeiting. Humans are like that. There are a great many drugs that could help so many people, but we ban them because we fear abuse (MDMA is one such substance – one that could help in a number of conditions). So let’s focus on targeting the problems, and not the patients.Before he took office, Andrew Cuomo’s Big Idea was to be a “strong governor.” He believed New York was lagging the nation because his predecessors had been pushed around by the Legislature, unions and other special interests.

Any assessment of his tenure would have to conclude that Cuomo kept that promise. He has been New York’s strong man, sometimes to a fault, but there has never been much doubt about who runs Albany.

Until now. Faced with a challenge from the left by Cynthia Nixon, Cuomo suddenly isn’t so much running Albany as he is running scared.

His campaign is fixated on anticipating what Nixon will say next, then saying it first. That he does it with his customary bravado doesn’t hide the fact that she is setting his agenda.

To continue reading Michael Goodwin's column from the New York Post, click here.Tuesday night’s state dinner at the White House honoring French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife, Brigitte, will be an opportunity to highlight the historic settings and artifacts that commemorate our heritage and celebrate the honored guests.

In every presidential administration, opportunities arise to use the iconic setting of the White House to highlight American values and impart a strong sense of personal style. These dinners are later memorialized in historical and personal accounts. Images from them may even become indelibly etched in our minds.

I know something about such occasions, because I was chief floral designer at the White House from 2009 to 2015. I was honored to help design décor and flowers for two visits by heads of state from France: the private dinner that President Obama and first lady Michelle Obama hosted for President Nicolas Sarkozy and his wife, Carla Bruni, in 2010; and the state visit of President Francois Hollande in 2014.

For both events, the flowers were designed to carry out diplomatic, cultural and historical themes – with the goal of honoring France and the individual leaders, as well as to celebrate cherished American traditions and ideals.

Using flowers, symbolism, colors and historical pieces from the White House collection, my goal was to weave an integrated tapestry of inspired designs that told the story of the longstanding friendship between the U.S. and France

As the eyes of the world turn to see the meeting of two world leaders at the White House this week, here are the key things to look for in terms of floral and style diplomacy:

Our relationship with France dates back to the Revolutionary War, so this state dinner will likely include symbols that both commemorate our common bond and exemplify our shared democratic ideals.

Flowers and décor are not just simple decorative placements. They have the potential to take on a nuanced diplomatic role, conveying strategic messaging in support of the administration’s policies and priorities that resonate in the White House setting and around the world.

When the French president and his wife arrived at the White House Monday, the exterior was awash in red, white and blue to greet the delegation. This was followed by the impressive pomp and circumstance of the state arrival ceremony on the South Lawn Tuesday morning.

In addition to this pageantry, it’s possible we’ll see other signs and symbolism that bolster the narrative about the strength of our longstanding friendship, in both overt and subtle ways. The ceremonial planting Monday of an oak tree on the South Lawn of the White House – a symbolic gift to the Trumps from the French president and his wife – is being reciprocated by a comparable gesture from the president and first lady.

President Trump and Melania Trump are giving the Macrons a section of framed upholstery from one of the carved and gilded Blue Room chairs, designed in France and commissioned by President James Monroe.

But perhaps the greatest opportunity for making a symbolic statement will focus on the bonds of war. Because our relationship with France was solidified on the battlefields of the American Revolutionary War, along with World Wars I and II, commemorative memorial wreaths of symbolic flowers – a universal symbol of tribute that honors fallen heroes – can add a special, meaningful touch.

Some of the most beautiful and historic pieces in the White House collection have a French provenance – the 18th century gilt mirrored Monroe Plateau, the early 19th century marble-topped table in the Red Room by a French-American cabinetmaker, and the French Blue Room furniture acquired by President Monroe are just a few examples.

For their first state dinner President and Mrs. Trump are likely to showcase this prized White House collection that highlights America’s longstanding infatuation with French style and decorative arts.

Look for special vignettes and tributes displayed throughout the White House during the state visit. The antique objects are not only beautiful, but often come with wonderful stories that bring the inanimate objects to life.

In addition to highlighting the White House collection of French decorative arts, the first lady is paying tribute to former first ladies Hillary Clinton and Laura Bush by selecting their china for this inaugural state visit.

Additional décor includes the large urns of cherry blossoms lining the Great Hall. Cherry blossoms are not only the quintessential emblem of spring in Washington, but also in Paris, where they are currently in bloom in the Jardin de Tuilieries near the Elysses Palace, the home of the French first couple.

In the context of international diplomacy, kind personal gestures and genuine rapport among leaders carry great diplomatic weight, especially when conducted on the prominent White House stage. The Trumps and the Macrons are already off to a good start, having cemented their personal friendship last year when President Trump and the first lady visited France.

When the Macrons arrived at Joint Base Andrews Monday, Melania Trump launched the visit on a high symbolic note by arranging for an aide to present Brigitte Macron with a bouquet of purple irises, the national flower of France. President Macron noted this with obvious approval.

At Blair House, the official guest house for visiting dignitaries, the first lady likely sent a bouquet of flowers in the French style, featuring wildflowers inspired by the meadows surrounding the French couple’s hometown, along with a presidential welcome note penned in French.

Melania Trump, with her mastery of multiple languages, including French, is be able to converse with the Macrons in their native tongue, adding a unique touch of hospitality.

At the White House, especially during the private reception that is held in the residence before the state dinner, there will be additional opportunities to articulate special personal touches.

These personal touches range from décor that incorporates chocolate (a nod to Mrs. Macron’s heritage coming from a family of chocolatiers) and vases decorated with sheet music (honoring President Macron’s musical achievements as an award-winning pianist).

The sheet music showcases Claude Debussy’s “Claire de Lune,” Maurice Ravel’s “Bolero,” and the French national anthem. If the Trumps are lucky, perhaps President Macron will sit down to play these pieces on the grand piano in the Center Hall.

After the dinner, Mrs. Trump can add the piece de resistance finishing touch by presenting Mrs. Macron with a hand-held bouquet in the French style – a custom and practice I learned in France and introduced at the White House.

As former French first lady Carla Bruni departed the White House in 2010, Michelle Obama gave her a small white “Chanel bouquet” that was designed to honor her time as a Chanel model and French recording artist. This was a symbol of friendship adding a personal and memorable touch to a beautiful evening.

Tuesday night’s state dinner, like most state visits, will not be remembered for scintillating toasts or serious policy breakthroughs. It will be remembered for the many meticulous details that convey symbolic meaning and metaphor and lay the groundwork for fruitful relationships and international diplomacy.

Flowers and décor are not just simple decorative placements. They have the potential to take on a nuanced diplomatic role, conveying strategic messaging in support of the administration’s policies and priorities that resonate in the White House setting and around the world. This is the power – and potential – of floral and style diplomacy.I’m just back home in the U.S. from a visit to Israel, where for four straight Fridays the Hamas terrorist group that rules the Gaza Strip has organized protests at the border with Israel involving thousands of Palestinians. Some of the protesters have attacked Israel’s border security fence “with explosives, firebombs and other means,” The Associated Press reported.

“Huge plumes of smoke from burning tires (set afire by demonstrators) engulfed the border area,” the AP reported from the scene. “Some of the activists` threw stones toward the fence or flew kites with flaming rags dangling from their tails.”

In other words, what’s happening on the Gaza-Israel border is not a peaceful protest. While most protesters aren’t joining in the violence, some are violent and dangerous terrorists who want to tear down Israel’s security fence to make it easy to launch deadly attacks on the Jewish state.

Acting to defend their nation, Israeli forces have killed 34 Palestinian attackers along the border since the protests began March 30, despite the best efforts by the Israelis to use the minimal force required.

No nation on Earth would welcome terrorist murderers to cross its borders to take the lives of innocent civilians. And if terrorists assaulted any other border on the planet, the number of attackers killed would undoubtedly be much higher.

The protests are scheduled to end with a massive Palestinian march on the border May 15, the 70th anniversary (on the secular calendar) of Israel gaining independence from Britain.

You might think the United Nations and countries around the world would be condemning the violent protests – but you’d be wrong. Israel’s s actions to defend its border prompted the usual Israel-bashing at the U.N., in the media, and wherever left gathers to condemn the only democracy in the Middle East.

It’s tragic that violence is a daily fact of life in much of the Middle East, including Israel and the Palestinian territories.

When you speak to Israelis and Palestinians who aren’t involved in the politics of the region – as I did on my recent visit to Israel – one fact stands out: they all want peace. They’re weary of the costs of war and they’re sick of seeing their children fighting and dying in a never-ending battle that benefits no one.

An Israeli woman told me that Palestinian women taking part in nascent peace movements have had their lives and the lives of their families threatened if they continued to campaign for peace.

The average Gaza resident hardly desires to spend Friday afternoons burning tires and risking getting shot or killed. But as long as Hamas calls the shots, some are drawn to violence.

What the Palestinians and their supporters around the globe fail to acknowledge is that the true oppressor of Palestinians in Gaza is not Israel, which completely withdrew from the territory in 2005. The real oppressor of Palestinians is Hamas itself.

Hamas’ obstructionist policy of non-recognition of Israel – and its vow to destroy Israel as Jewish state – is not just empty rhetoric. The terrorist group regularly launches rocket attacks against Israeli civilians and spends millions of dollars building cross-border tunnels for terrorists to infiltrate Israel.

Hamas refuses to cooperate with the Palestinian Authority and has created a humanitarian nightmare for the innocent people trapped under its sway. Electricity is available only a few hours a day, tap water is undrinkable, unemployment stands at 50 percent, the Mediterranean shoreline is contaminated, and only humanitarian aid from Israel sustains the lives of Gaza residents.

But you would never glean any of that from the latest round of headlines condemning Israel for using “disproportionate” force against civilians. As if Israelis were obligated to let themselves be killed by terrorists to make sure as many of them died as Palestinians to achieve proportionality.

The reality is that the masses of Palestinians remaining a safe distance from the border are a cover for the armed terrorists seeking to crash through the fence each Friday and attack Israeli communities less than a mile from Gaza.

This explains Hamas’ resort to burning tires and flying kites with flaming tails – the thick black smoke is intended to offer cover to the infiltrators. Yet the quotes reporters gather from the protesters never offer the same rationale twice for the demonstrations, because in fact there is no rationale for them, other than Hamas seeking to save itself from irrelevancy.

In today’s Middle East, the game has changed. It’s no longer a battle between Israelis and Palestinians, fought at the negotiating table as well as through individual acts of violence against Israeli civilians.

Instead, the real story is how united former enemies – Israel, Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States, Jordan, and Egypt – have become in the face of existential threats from Iran and ISIS.

Many Palestinians have been all but abandoned by their “protectors,” no longer a pawn in the greater game of wiping Israel off the map.

And Arab nations have quietly drawn together with Israel to find ways to stop Iran and its proxies – the terrorist groups Hezbollah, Islamic Jihad and ISIS – from taking control of even more of the Middle East, now that Syria, Lebanon, and to a growing extent Iraq are under Iran’s sway.

As a result, Hamas is facing tough times. The terrorist group’s rejection of Israel no longer has relevance for leaders across the Middle East who now have Iran and ISIS to worry about.

So Hamas has seized on Land Day, a four decade-old Palestinian grievance against Israel, as the excuse for launching a series of raids on the Jewish state. These raids are masked by the mass demonstrations intended to culminate on Israel’s 70th anniversary, the day the U.S. Embassy moves to Jerusalem. But you would never know any of that from the left-wing, Israel-bashing media or the enemies of freedom at the United Nations.

The number of Gaza protesters actually declined from the first week to the second, for several reasons. First, the people of Gaza – whose lives have been broken by the Hamas leadership ostensibly “serving” them – have bigger fish to fry than the question of where exactly American visas will be processed in the Jewish state once the new embassy opens its doors.

And second, Gaza residents have to recognize that despite Hamas propaganda, their bleak situation can no longer be blamed on Israel, which is in fact the source of humanitarian shipments of food, water and medicine. To paraphrase Ronald Reagan, they’ve come to see that Hamas isn’t the solution to the problem; Hamas is the problem.

This Friday, Hamas will be sponsoring yet another protest at the border. Here’s hoping that Gazans will rise up – not against their so-called oppressors in Israel but against the real force that has relegated their lives to nightmare status. And that would be Hamas itself.WASHINGTON -- As senators consider the nomination of the next secretary of veterans affairs, they should first reflect on the story of an Army veteran named Jason White.

White served our country in Afghanistan, where he was severely injured by an IED explosion. His spine was crushed, and he suffered a traumatic brain injury, but thanks to the skill and training of our nation's brave combat medics, he survived. Yet on his return to the home front, he battled the hidden wounds of war -- insomnia, depression and the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder. He was not alone. Four members of his unit killed themselves after they got home. And after struggling with his mental and physical wounds for five years, White decided to do the same. One day in 2016, he came home, put a pistol to his head and pulled the trigger.

He would be dead today if his gun had not jammed.

His wife rushed him to the local Department of Veterans Affairs clinic in Colorado Springs for emergency psychological intervention. Incredibly, she was told that her husband would have to wait six months to see a therapist. As Jason White told the Gazette in Colorado Springs, "They knew I was suicidal, and still it was six months to talk to someone."

Fortunately, a few days later, White was told he could be referred to a private psychologist through the Veterans Choice Program that Congress established in 2014 after a series of scandals in which patients died while waiting for care at VA facilities. He began seeing Dr. Michael Sunich, and that treatment saved his life. "Without him, I probably wouldn't be here," White told the paper.

But Sunich kept a secret from White. He was treating White for free, because the company VA picked to manage the Veterans Choice Program, Health Net Federal Services, failed to pay his claims. Others were not as lucky as White. A November 2017 VA inspector general report found that in Colorado Springs, "staff did not take timely action on consults, did not provide timely care in a response to consults, underreported wait times and inappropriately closed consults" for veterans with for post-traumatic stress disorder. The inspector general further found that "veterans in an estimated 210 consults were inappropriately denied an opportunity to receive care through VHA's Choice Program."

The Trump administration came into office promising to fix this by expanding Veterans Choice. During the 2016 campaign, Trump declared, "Veterans should be guaranteed the right to choose their doctor and clinics, whether at a VA facility or at a private medical center." One reason David Shulkin was fired as secretary of veterans affairs (aside from his ethics violations) was his resistance to the president's desire to expand Veterans Choice.

This is why the president's choice of Navy Rear Adm. Ronny L. Jackson to succeed Shulkin was so inspired. Shulkin was a hospital administrator with decades of management experience, and his predecessor Robert McDonald was chairman, president and CEO of Procter & Gamble. And yet on their watch, Jason White and countless other veterans fell through the cracks.

Jackson understands what veterans such as White are going through because he has been a combat medic in the field treating severely injured warriors. He served in Taqaddum, Iraq, as an emergency physician in charge of resuscitative medicine for a forward-deployed surgical shock trauma platoon. He has been there when a helicopter landed carrying a solider whose body had been torn apart by an IED, and he's been covered in their blood as he struggled to stabilize them and save their lives.

No other nominee to run VA has seen the plight of our wounded warriors in the war on terrorism up close like he has. Jackson understands what our vets went through on the battlefield, because he was on the battlefield with them. He understands their mental and physical wounds, because he has treated them.

Jackson's nomination hearing has been postponed because of last-minute allegations that he created a "hostile work environment." Of course, they should be investigated, but it is highly suspicious that, after he served as White House physician for Presidents George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Trump, these allegations are suddenly arising now. Whether Jackson withdraws his nomination or stays and fights, this much is clear: We've tried management gurus at the top of VA, and it didn't work. What VA desperately needs right now is a leader, not a manager.

Veterans Affairs as an institution is bleeding out. It needs a combat medic, stat.A Flybe plane heading from Newquay Airport to Gatwick Airport in England had to make an emergency landing when the cockpit windshield cracked shortly after takeoff.

PASSENGER DIES ABOARD ALASKA AIRLINES FLIGHT FROM SEATTLE TO KANSAS CITY

The pilot was forced to turn back and land at Newquay in Cornwall after the large crack appeared across the glass early Tuesday morning local time.

The plane carrying 92 passengers landed safely.

One of the passengers on board said the scary situation was handled well. "The plane slowed down a bit, then they made an announcement that there was a crack in the windscreen and they had to return to Newquay. No fuss was made, no drama, all very professional,” Ray Ellis told SWNS.

The airline confirmed the incident, saying the crack was in the “outer layer of its windscreen.”

"The captain took the necessary action and, as a usual precautionary measure, the airport put its emergency vehicles on standby. The safety of our passengers and crew is our number one priority and we apologize for the inconvenience experienced," a spokesperson for Flybe told SWNS.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

The airline offered to provide ground transportation to London’s Gatwick Airport for all the passengers. Ellis said some people stayed to catch a later flight and others opted for a refund.Lindsay Lohan‘s mom, Dina Lohan, lost her daughter’s childhood home to foreclosure after a lengthy legal battle.

A New York judge ordered that the home Lindsay grew up in be sold due to Dina defaulting on the mortgage, according to The Blast. After Dina failed to respond to a foreclosure lawsuit, the report said, the judge ordered that the home be sold at a public auction within 90 days.

Dina owed $1.5 million on the home as of December, but she has fought to keep the home for years. At one point, the “Freaky Friday” actress gave her $40,000 to try to save the house.

The Lohan family matriarch officially lost the house when she failed to show up to court to respond to JPMorgan Chase’s lawsuit for foreclosure.

This story originally appeared on the New York Post."Fixer Upper" stars Chip and Joanna Gaines are getting ready for baby No. 5 and the reality stars recently admitted they have yet to decide on a name for their new bundle of joy.

"I want a C name and he [Chip] wants a D name," Joanna said on Tuesday's episode of the "Today Show." "I say he got the boy, so I get to pick the name."

The Gaines' already have two sons with "D" names, a tradition that they have carried out. Their oldest son's name is Drake while the second son's name is Duke. But Joanna isn't sure that she wants to continue on the "D" name tradition with her next son. Chip said that his wife now wants to "change the pace."

"This is really upsetting the balance of power," Chip joked about the new edition of the family being a boy, outnumbering his two daughters, Ella Rose and Emmie Kay. "So the boys might be able to outvote from here until kingdom come."

With a full house already, Joanna said she expects all of her children to help out with the new baby.

"There's going to be quite the [age] gap," Joanna said explaining that the age range for her kids runs from 8 to 13 years old. "I'm going to have a lot of little helpers. I'm so excited."

The Gaines' revealed the sex of their new baby with a touching video they shared on Twitter back in March.

The video featured a little boy named Gage, who helped the couple announce the news that they were expecting a baby boy.

“Alright, alright … if we’re going to announce the gender of our #5th child. It might as well come from my new friend #Gage! Take it away my man. @tebowfoundation,” Chip wrote.

The couple met their Twitter pal Gage while at the Tim Tebow Foundation golf weekend. In the video, Chip asked Gage to help him think of a name for his new son.

“We’re just about to have another little baby because Uncle Chip lost his mind … I can’t think of a ‘D’ name. Can you help me think of a ‘D’ name?” Chip asked Gage while on the golf field at the Tebow Foundation event. “Is that a secret? I don’t know, that might not even be allowed on Twitter. It’s a little boy and I need a ‘D’ name and so far, all I could come up with was Dragon, and she’s like, ’You are not calling that baby Dragon!’ Can you help me?”

The couple announced the news of the pregnancy back in January, just a few months after they revealed that fifth season of their hit HGTV show would be their last.A new documentary aims to expose the shocking details behind the affair of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles.

ITV's latest special, titled “The Real Camilla: HRH the Duchess of Cornwall,” details how a chance encounter at a polo match in 1970 impacted the monarchy forever.

Their budding romance came to a halt when Charles left for naval duties overseas and Camilla married now-retired British Army officer Andrew Parker Bowles.

Still, the documentary claims Camilla, who had an unhappy marriage due to her husband's adulterous behavior, quickly fell into the arms of Charles when he returned. The prince wasn’t married to future royal Diana Spencer yet.

“She was unhappy that she was the betrayed woman,” an insider told the program of Camilla. “This was the real problem. That’s what sent her back into the arms of Prince Charles. Andrew was away an awful lot, and Prince Charles was someone who was kind to her."

Diana, who married Charles in 1981 and became the Princess of Wales, was reportedly unaware of the secret romance. The documentary claims both women started off as good friends. However, when Diana learned about the affair, she immediately became “moody, willful and unpredictable.”

“There were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded,” Diana would famously say in a 1995 interview with Panorama when asked about Camilla.

Diana and Charles divorced in 1996. A year later, she was killed in a car accident at age 36 in Paris.

Charles and Camilla married in 2005. His former mistress became Duchess of Cornwall with the queen’s approval.

Back in 2017, Diana’s biographer Andrew Morton told Fox News the People’s Princess had long suspected Charles was having an ongoing affair with his ex-girlfriend.

“Here is Prince Charles telling Diana that he’s going to give a bracelet to his old lover just before the wedding,” said Morton. “Just a few days before the wedding. And then keeps pictures of Camilla in his diary on their honeymoon. What woman is not going to be incensed by this crass and insensitive behavior?

"Diana was very suspicious of Charles’ relationship with Camilla right from the get-go. And who could blame her? He left her behind, but the fact that he’s been [currently] married for 12 years to Camilla shows that he still had plenty of love in his heart for his former mistress.”

Diana doubted Charles feelings for her, Morton claimed.

“Diana said to me that when he asked her to marry him… she said, ‘Oh yes, yes I will. I love you so much.’ And Prince Charles, even in the privacy of that moment, said, ‘Whatever love means.’ And he gave that famous television interview, ‘whatever love means.’ So you have to ask yourself, did he really have any kind of genuine feeling for Diana or was she, as she felt herself, a sacrificial lamb…producing an heir and a spare and then being discarded?”

“[Diana] was hoping she would come to terms with this new life and move on,” he added. “But she realized she was living this lie… seemingly the wife of Prince Charles. And yet you got Prince Charles, who was effectively with another man’s wife at Highgrove, their country estate, while she languished alone at Kensington Palace.”

“The Real Camilla: HRH The Duchess of Cornwall” is currently available for streaming on ITV.Pop star Madonna has lost her battle to prevent an auction of her personal items, including a love letter from her ex-boyfriend, the late rapper Tupac Shakur, a pair of worn panties and a hairbrush containing her hair.

Last year, a judge ordered Gotta Have It! Collectibles to pull the items from its impending rock 'n' roll-themed auction after the Material Girl sought an emergency court order.

In a decision revealed Monday, the judge dismissed the case on grounds the statute of limitations to recover the items had passed.

The auction house told The New York Times it had done due diligence on the items and was confident Madonna had no claim.

The company says the auction will be in July.

Starting bid for the Tupac letter is $100,000.Matt Lauer is having a tough time as divorce proceedings from wife Annette Roque continue, a source tells ET.

The 60-year-old former "Today" show anchor has currently been living a very private life in the Hamptons in New York since being abruptly fired from the NBC morning show last November due to "inappropriate sexual behavior in the workplace."

He also put up his lavish, 11-bedroom Manhattan apartment for sale earlier this month.

HODA KOTB AND GAYLE KING SAY THEY STILL TALK TO MATT LAUER AND CHARLIE ROSE AFTER SEXUAL HARASSMENT SCANDALS

"Matt cut himself off from the life he knew in Manhattan and has remained for the most part isolated," the source tells ET. "He looks exhausted. Matt is finally coming to terms with the reality that his marriage is over and he is in bad shape. He feels he lost everything important in his life overnight. He is embarrassed and ashamed."

"There is no chance at this point they will work things out," the source adds of his relationship with Roque. "Matt held on to the idea that Annette might eventually forgive him because she had always stuck by him but now he has no hope."

According to the source, Roque has already met with attorneys and the divorce proceedings are moving forward. The two share three children together -- Jack, 16, Romy, 14, and Thijs, 11.

PICS: MATT LAUER SELLING HIS LAVISH NYC APARTMENT

"They are settling all the details," the source says. "Annette's friends don't feel [the split] was overnight. It has been building for years. The truth has finally surfaced. They barely ever speak to each other anymore and only recently tried to constructively discuss the divorce settlement."

The source says the former couple talked two weeks ago to try to negotiate some of the details on their own.

"Annette is angry," the source says. "She feels Matt's behavior has affected a lot of people and has embarrassed the whole family."

"Annette plans to receive a very good settlement in this divorce," the source also claims. "She wants to make sure she and the children will always be well taken care of."

As for Lauer, the source says he is remorseful.

MATT LAUER LEADING 'LONELY' LIFE IN HAMPTONS

"Matt feels terrible and regrets his behavior but his regret isn't enough right now," the source says. "It feels like all doors have closed for him."

Earlier this month, ET spoke to Lauer's former "Today" show co-workers, Savannah Guthrie and Hoda Kotb, at The Hollywood Reporter’s 35 Most Powerful People in Media Celebration, where they shared that the newsman's top priority is currently his family.

Both Guthrie and Kotb are still in touch with Lauer.

“I just know that he's really focused on his family right now and I think that's right," Guthrie said.

“Yeah, I think that is really where his heart is at this moment -- his children and just working on that," Kotb added. "So, I think that work probably isn't in the forefront of his mind.”A woman’s review for Kat Von D Tattoo Liner is going viral because of some extraordinary circumstances.

Shelby Pagan wrote on her review that she’s “never buying any other liner again,” because of how incredibly long-lasting it is. And she would know – her review is titled, “I was in a car accident and my eyeliner didn’t budge.”

WALMART CUSTOMER IN KENTUCKY USES STORE INTERCOM TO ASK FOR HELP, GOES VIRAL

Pagan was involved in a car accident last June when she was pulled over on the shoulder of a highway in Massachusetts with her hazard lights on calling roadside assistance. Pagan was hit by a “distracted driver” going 55 mph.

The registered nurse says emergency crews responded and an ambulance took her to the emergency room where she stayed for 8 hours, according to her product review.

“My mascara was running down my face from crying and all other products had been wiped off in the transfer to the hospital,” Pagan wrote. “But not my tattoo eyeliner.”

Pagan attached a photo with her neck brace from the accident to corroborate the positive review.

According to her Twitter, Pagan took the selfie for police evidence and then posted the shot the Instagram. On social media, others commented how good her eyeliner looked, which prompted her to leave the review.

Initially, Pagan’s review didn’t seem to get much traction, until Twitter user @guadalahari was shopping for eyeliner and noticed the picture and comments.

“She deada– took a picture in her neck brace I am deceased,” she tweeted.

Since then, the tweet and Pagan’s review has gone viral with more than 155,000 retweets and over 400,000 likes with most comments agreeing with Pagan.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

One even posted their own accident selfie with the eyeliner on, confirming Pagan’s review.Bigfoot might just have the best travel agent of all time.

Just a couple of months after purportedly being spotted in the Canadian wilderness, the legendary Sasquatch has been spotted in New Jersey, according to the Asbury Park Press, which first reported the news.

The sighting, listed in the Bigfoot Field Researchers Organization database, was in the Pine Barrens part of New Jersey on April 7 when a husband and wife, who were walking their dog, claim they spotted the creature.

"After a bit we started to drive off," Tricia, the wife who observed Bigfoot said, according to the report. "I am driving and in a split second I saw something brown on 2 legs and about 6 feet tall sprint behind the car in the area we were just in. I caught it in my rear view mirror. I was kind of thinking to myself that my eyes were playing tricks on me but I just couldn't shake it."

VIDEO: IS IT... BIGFOOT? HARD-TO-MAKE-OUT FOOTAGE PURPORTING TO SHOW LEGENDARY GIANT IN CANADA FOREST GOES VIRAL

It's unclear exactly what Tricia saw in the New Jersey town (maybe it's the infamous Russian gangster from "The Sopranos" episode where Christopher and Paulie get lost??), but whatever it was, it was enough for Tricia to get spooked.

Bigfoot and his (or is it a her?) brethren have purportedly been spotted several times over the years in the Garden State, most recently in Cape May County in November 2016. Tim Hanna, along with his friends, were watching TV when they noticed a creature "just under six feet tall," walking away from Hanna's house.

"The creature was about 150 feet away and passed under a street light, which gave us the ability to get a decent look at it," Hanna said in the report. "It was long limbed, but clearly not human. Because of the lighting it was in silhouette, but we could see that it was covered with hair. It was walking with its shoulders hunched forward, and did not appear to be in any distress. We watched it pass from view as it went behind trees and into the woods on the far side of the street."

POSITIVE SHE SAW BIGFOOT, SHE'S SUING CALIFORNIA

It's unclear whether Bigfoot uses Expedia to zip across North America or uses Uber or another ride-sharing service to see the sights of this great continent, but he sure does get around.

In October 2017, Bigfoot was reportedly spotted in Northern California, but only because he had gotten greedy and tried to eat a pig.

Jeffrey Gonzalez, a self-described paranormal expert, said he heard about the sighting from a local farmer who said he saw the creature and five others running on his ranch near Avocado Lake.

“One of them, which was extremely tall, had a pig over its shoulder," Gonzalez said in comments obtained by Fox 26, a Fox News affiliate. "And the five scattered and the one with the pig was running so fast it didn’t see an irrigation pipe and it tripped, with the pig flying over."

In March, the residents of Wapum, Pa. held their annual Bigfoot hunt, but surprisingly came up empty.

The Marine Corps is now arming its Osprey tiltrotor aircraft with a range of weapons to enable its assault support and escort missions in increasingly high-threat combat environments.

Rockets, guns and missiles are among the weapons now under consideration, as the Corps examines requirements for an “all-quadrant” weapons application versus other possible configurations such as purely "forward firing" weapons.

“The current requirement is for an allquadrant weapons system. We are re-examining that requirement—we may find that initially, forward firing weapons could bridge the escort gap until we get a new rotary wing or tiltotor attack platform, with comparable range and speed to the Osprey,” Capt. Sarah Burns, Marine Corps Aviation, told Warrior Maven in a statement

Some weapons, possibly including Hydra 2.75inch folding fin laser guided rockets or .50-cal and 7.62mm guns, have been fired as a proof of concept, Burns said.

“Further testing would have to be done to ensure we could properly integrate them,” she added.

Click on Warrior Maven for more.A North Carolina mother’s decision to amputate her right foot in hopes of preventing a cancerous tumor from spreading did not come easy, but she said it was her love of life and her kids that ultimately helped her make it.

“I did this because I love life,” Jenn Andrews, 33, told PEOPLE. “I’m not one to miss out on life. I have a 3-year-old and a 4-year-old who I love more than you can love someone else and the idea of them growing up without me just broke my heart. Anything I could do to be there for them, I was willing to do – and that’s what I did.”

Andrews, who is recovering from her March 12 surgery, was first alerted to a pea-sized bump on her foot in 2013. The health and wellness coach was pregnant with her daughter at the time and had been getting a foot massage when the pedicurist pointed it out.

7-YEAR-OLD BOY RECOVERING AFTER 5-ORGAN TRANSPLANT SURGERY

Admittedly, Andrews said she didn’t think about it and didn’t have it checked until after she gave birth to her son, at which point she found out that it was cancerous. She was diagnosed with a low-grade myxoid sarcoma, and while she had it removed once, it grew back, PEOPLE reported.

“If you find something, don’t wait on it,” Andrews told TODAY. “If it’s continuous, you need to go to the doctor. It’s scary and you might be told something you don’t want to be told, but the more proactive you are and the quicker you go, the better chance you have at it not being this large issue.”

Andrews’ doctor told her that amputating her foot would be the only sure way to rid of the cancer. So, with the support of her husband, Miles, Andrews had her foot amputated. She decided to turn her ordeal into a positive experience for others, and created the #MoveforJenn campaign on social media.

“When I woke up from surgery my Facebook and Instagram was flooded with #MoveforJenn posts and I can’t put into words what it meant to me to see that so many people got moving,” she told PEOPLE.

Andrews has continued to share her recovery on Facebook and on a GoFundMe account. On April 12 she shared an emotional video of her taking her first steps since the surgery. She’s been fitted with a temporary leg while she waits for a custom prosthetic, and has set a goal of completing a 5K by the end of this year.

“I’m focusing on getting better, but I’m not focusing on my loss,” she told TODAY. “Mindset is everything.”Jennifer Garner is a woman seeking revenge and justice.

At least she is in the upcoming thriller, “Peppermint.”

The 46-year-old actress is making a return to the action genre by starring as Riley North in director Pierre Morel’s revenge thriller. She plays a mother who wakes up from a coma after her husband and daughter are brutally killed during a savage attack. Riley North becomes an underground vigilante when corrupt officials fail to bring her family’s attackers, cartel members, to justice.

“This movie has that same kind of great mix of drama and action because to me, to do an action movie for the sake of doing action is kind of cheap,” Garner said. “You want the drama and the stakes to be high enough, that the action is a payoff.”

The actress spoke during an appearance at CinemaCon, a large movie industry convention in Las Vegas this week, to showcase the film, which debuts this fall.

Garner, a mother of three, was also showing off her chiseled arms and muscular physique. She said she had to get into peak physical shape for the role.

She also spoke about her real life role – as a mother. She said she rarely gets to see adult flicks because she loves taking her children to the cinema.

“Now, when I like to go [to the movies],” she said, “I like to have a kid on my lap. You know, because I go to a lot of kids’ movies.”

Garner is also returning to television. She will soon be starring in HBO’s “Camping” created by Lena Dunham. Garner will play wife to “Doctor Who’s” David Tennant as they maneuver their way through a camping trip from hell."Roseanne" star Emma Kenney is firing back at critics who have slammed the show for taking on politics and called the revival divisive, claiming it's not a good representation of an average American family.

The show features a pro-Trump lead actress, Roseanne Barr, and in the revival's premiere it was revealed Roseanne's character voted for President Trump.

Kenney said the cast doesn't talk politics when the cameras aren't rolling and she encourages viewers to be open-minded and give the reboot a chance.

ROSEANNE BARR ADVISES JIMMY KIMMEL TO 'ZIP THAT F---ING LIP' ABOUT TRUMP

"There’s a whole lot of different storylines that are going on other than politics." - Emma Kenny

“Something I want the viewers to know is we talk so much about things going on in [the] current day other than politics," Kenney told The Hollywood Reporter. "There’s a whole lot of different storylines that are going on other than politics.”

Sara Gilbert, who plays Darlene, echoed Kenney's comments in a previous interview on “Watch What Happens Live" on April 1.

“The show is not about politics. It’s not about anyone’s position or a policy, it’s really about what happens to a family when there’s a political divide, which is something that I think the entire country can relate to and something we need to talk about," she said.

Kenney said the show aims to showcase a typical family.

“The show is all about a family and family differences and how they bond together at the end of the day and end up having a nice family meal," Kenney said. "And maybe it’s not so nice, maybe they’re screaming at each other, but it’s all in normal family fun.”

Kenney, who plays Darlene's daughter Harris Conner on the show, is one of several new characters to join the cast more than 20 years after the original first aired — and it's a role she takes pride in.

"I’m so excited to have been able to join this iconic '90s family and be working with the class acts that have graced the covers of The Hollywood Reporter before," Kenney, 18, told the publication. "Just working with that level of talent is a true blessing and an amazing experience."

'ROSEANNE' STAR EMMA KENNEY IS 'SEEKING TREATMENT' FOR HER 'ILLEGAL BEHAVIOR'

Barr has gotten plenty of backlash since the show returned.

"Diversity of opinion is part of diversity," she tweeted two days after the reboot first aired. "Hating ppl for not agreeing with your approach to ending hatred is not cool."

Barr doesn't shy away from sharing her political beliefs. She's also defended her real-life support of President Trump, though she clarified in the past that she's "not a Trump apologist."

“I’m still the same — you all moved. You all went so f---ing far out you lost everybody,” Barr told late-night host Jimmy Kimmel during a guest appearance on March 22 when he said he remembered her being a "very socially liberal" person in the past. “A lot of us, no matter who we voted for, we don’t want to see our president fail.”

Kenney, meanwhile, is an emerging star, but she recently told In Touch magazine her fame hasn't been carefree. She revealed she went to recently rehab to seek treatment for her "battles."

'Roseanne' airs on Tuesdays on ABC.“Night Court” star Harry Anderson died of a stroke.

The Buncombe, N.C., medical examiner determined the actor’s immediate cause of death to have been a cardioembolic cerebrovascular accident, a type of stroke, according to his death certificate.

The document, which was obtained by Page Six on Tuesday, also lists influenza and heart disease as contributing to his death.

Anderson, who also starred in the ’90s sitcom “Dave’s World,” died in his sleep last week. He was 65.

In her call to paramedics, Anderson’s wife, Elizabeth Morgan, mentioned that her husband had suffered a series of strokes earlier this year, according to TMZ.

This article originally appeared in the New York Post.Kanye West can't stop tweeting.

The rapper has been ranting wildly on Twitter -- including several pro-Trump tweets -- following reports that he abruptly fired his manager Scooter Braun.



Beginning Tuesday and extending into Wednesday afternoon, the rapper tweeted nearly constantly about everything from his Yeezy fashion line to Coachella and his daughter, North. In the afternoon, he took the time to send some love to his "brother" Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton.



The love seems mutual as Trump tweeted back at the rapper, "Thank you Kanye, very cool!"

Later in the day, the star even had some things to say about former president Barack Obama.

But it didn't take long for West's wife, Kim Kardashian, to chime in and require her husband to clairfy a few things about his political tweets.

She also went on a rant of her own defending her husband's tweets.

Many of West's tweets seemed disconnected or nonsensical and some focused on slamming recent media coverage that claims those close to West are concerned for his health.

The news of Braun's firing comes a few days after Ebro Darden, of Hot 97’s “Ebro in the Morning,” claimed West told him during a wide-ranging interview, “Nobody really showed love for me when I was addicted to opioids and in the hospital.”

He wrote Wednesday: "there's been a lot of fake news so I just wanted to give you the facts. Yeezy will become the biggest apparel company in human history by working with the most genius level talents and creating product at an affordable price. I hired the head of supply chain from the Gap."

He also tweeted about his rumored presidential ambitions.

"Harvey Levin of TMZ your hearing from your future president. Let's be friends. Please never use the word erratic to describe a person who is economically and psychologically empowered."

He also acknowleged that he fired Braun writing, "I can't be managed."

He added: "yes I got rid of my last lawyer why? Because he wouldn't come to work full time. I also asked my last manager to come work full time for Yeezy of course the last lawyer and manager said no. So now I hired a CEO and a CFO and i have two full time lawyers as of now."



West abruptly fired A-list manager Braun, who also reps Ariana Grande and Justin Beiber. According to Page Six, West has recently also fired other members of his "inner circle" following his big announcement of five new albums, a philosophy book and hinting a possible presidential run with a tweet that simply read, "2024."

Sources in the industry told Page Six they are “very worried for Yeezy’s mental health” and worry that he could be on the verge of “another episode.”

In the midst of West's bizarre Twitter rant, it was also reported that the "Famous" rapper has had "explosive fights" with his mother-in-law, Kim Kardashian's mom Kris Jenner. But the momager quickly shot down the rumors and did some tweeting of her own.

On Tuesday, Jenner retweeted a People magazine article that claimed she and Kanye were in the middle of spat and said, "Lies, Lies, Lies."

She further defended her son-in-law and retweeted another article, which alleged the Kanye has been "on edge" and "difficult to deal with" and said, "Nope...not true!"

The rapper also tweeted at People and warned them about tweeting his name and said, "People magazine. Watch how you speak my name. You would love a pair of Yeezys. Don't play yourself."

West's current actions on Twitter are reminiscent of his behavior back in November 2016 when the performer was forced to cancel 21 tour dates after suffering a “nervous breakdown." During the time of his break down, the singer was said to be hospitalized for exhaustion which was triggered by the anniversary of his mother's death on top of stress from trying to balance a tour, an album and his fashion line.

The claim from Darden that the hospitalization stemmed from a drug addiction is new.

But one source told People that Kanye's current mood wasn't anything to worry about and blamed his "genius" personality for his controversial behavior.

“I think a lot of that stuff is Kanye,” the source said. “He’s always been like that. Kanye’s definitely the most genius and eccentric and erratic person I’ve ever had the pleasure of knowing.”Archaeologists in Egypt have discovered an extremely rare marble head depicting the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius.

The head, which shows the emperor with wavy hair and a beard, was discovered in the city of Aswan in southern Egypt, according to the Egyptian Ministry of Antiquities. In a Facebook post, Dr. Ayman Ashmawy, head of the Ministry’s Ancient Egyptian Antiquities Sector, described the find as unique, noting that it is rare to find statues of the Roman emperor in Egypt.

Egypt Independent reports that the statue’s head was found when experts were reducing the level of groundwater at the Kom Ombo temple in Aswan. The head was discovered in a well next to the temple, according to LiveScience.

AMAZING MUMMY DISCOVERY: 2,500-YEAR-OLD EGYPTIAN COFFIN WAS THOUGHT TO BE EMPTY

Marcus Aurelius, who lived in the 2nd century A.D., is also famous for his involvement in philosophy. A famed practitioner of stoic philosophy, the emperor’s writings are collected in the work “Meditations.”

Another team of archaeologists recently discovered a shrine to the god Osiris-Ptah-Neb at the Karnak Temple in Luxor. Pottery and part of a sitting statue were also uncovered at the site, as well as a section of stone panel depicting a ram and a goose on an offering table. The animals are symbols of the god Amun, the Egyptian Ministry of Antiquities said, in its Facebook post. A winged sun-disk is also shown on the panel. Associated with divinity, royalty and power, the winged sun-disk is a common symbol of the pharaonic era.

Ancient Egypt continues to reveal its secrets. Experts in Australia, for example, recently found the tattered remains of an ancient priestess in a 2,500-year-old Egyptian coffin that was long thought to be empty.

On the other side of the world, a rare ancient artifact depicting the famous female pharaoh Hatshepsut surfaced in the U.K. Stunning new research also claims that King Tutankhamun may have been a boy soldier, challenging the theory he was a weak and sickly youth before his mysterious death at around 18 years of age.

DESERT DISCOVERY: LOST TEMPLE OF RAMSES II UNCOVERED BY ARCHAEOLOGISTS

Experts in the U.K. also found the world’s oldest figurative tattoos on two ancient Egyptian mummies recently, one of which is the oldest tattooed female ever discovered.

Other recent finds include an ancient cemetery in Egypt with more than 40 mummies and a necklace containing a “message from the afterlife.” An ancient statue of a Nubian king with an inscription written in Egyptian hieroglyphics was also found at a Nile River temple in Sudan.

Scientists also believe that they may have found the secret of the Great Pyramid’s near-perfect alignment. Experts are also confident that they have solved the long-standing mystery of the “screaming mummy.”

MYSTERIOUS ANCIENT ARTWORK DEPICTING FEMALE PHARAOH FOUND BY ACCIDENT

In February, archaeologists announced the discovery of a 4,400-year-old tomb near the pyramids. Late last year, archaeologists also revealed that they had uncovered the graves of four children at an ancient site in Egypt.

Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogersThe heartbroken husband of the woman partially sucked out of a Southwest Airlines flight exchanged one last “love you” with her before she died — and recalled the moment he had to tell their children, “Mommy’s not going to come home.”

Michael Riordan broke his silence a week after Jennifer, the mother of his two children, died April 17 after an engine suddenly exploded at 32,000 feet, blasting a shower of debris through the cabin.

“Our last conversation was that. She called just to say, ‘I’m going to the airport,’ and we said, ‘Love you, safe travels,'” Michael said on NBC’s “Nightly News.”

Michael, a former chief operating officer for the city of Albuquerque, where the couple lived, remembered the gut-wrenching phone call informing him that something had happened on Jennifer’s flight.

“The chaplain at the hospital called and said, ‘We need to speak with Mike Riordan who is married to Jennifer. Are you married to Jennifer Riordan?'” Michael recalled to ABC News. “I said, ‘Yes, but she wasn’t going through Philadelphia. She was planning on going to Chicago, so I don’t think you —’ just absolute denial. I’m still in denial.”

The chaplain said a doctor was going to call Michael. But in the meantime, he went online and searched for news stories about the freak accident.

“I saw one passenger brought to the hospital, like, ‘OK, but the whole plane didn’t crash,'” he told ABC. “I was like, ‘She can’t be injured that bad. She’s just in a hospital, but I can get out there and I can hold her hand and love on her.'”

But that’s when the doctor called to deliver the bad news. He said they tried everything they could to save Jennifer, but it was too late.

“I immediately thought of the kids, and how do you tell your kids their mom was gone?” Michael said.

Jennifer, a 43-year-old banking executive, was set to reunite with her family at their son’s baseball game that Tuesday night after landing.

Instead, Michael drove to their kids’ school and pulled them both into a chapel.

“I just held their little hands and took a knee and said, ‘Mommy’s not going to come home, guys,'” he said.

The grieving dad said his children have kept him going since Jennifer’s passing.

“I have not been angry yet,” he told NBC. “I’m sure it’s coming. I’m keeping my love for her in my heart, and I’m staying strong for my children, and I’m soaking in their looks to me.”

“She’s going to be with us forever, and everything we do as a family is going to be based on Jennifer Riordan,” he added.

Jennifer became the first person to die in an accident on a US airline in nearly 10 years.

The Dallas-bound flight, which had 149 people on board, had just departed from LaGuardia Airport when it was diverted to Philadelphia for an emergency landing.

This article originally appeared on the New York Post.As it was for many Americans, October 1, 2017, was a sobering date for Mykenzie Lane and her boyfriend, Brandon Helmick. The couple of three years were listening to Jason Aldean at the Route 91 Harvest music festival in Las Vegas when a gunman, later identified as Stephen Paddock, opened fire, killing 58 people and injuring hundreds of others.

On Friday, however, the two were able to celebrate a more joyous occasion: their engagement.

Helmick, 21, proposed to Lane, 22, last week. The Mission Viejo man asked Lane to marry him using a “heart full of rose petals” on Laguna Beach, she told Fox News on Wednesday.

“I had some idea but I still cried my eyes out,” Lane, a California State student, said.

While an engagement is a special milestone for any couple, it holds a deeper significance for the California natives: Helmick protected Lane during the shooting.

Helmick, a baseball player at Saddleback College, threw his body over Lane after the first round of rapid-fire shots went off. The two then ran toward nearby storage units for shelter.

But moments later, Lane was shot. One of the gunman’s bullets hit the side of her left ankle, traveling through the front of her shin and then exiting out through her cowboy boot.

“From that point, he said we have to find a way to the hospital. I tried to walk but couldn’t, so he threw me on his back and carried me until we found an ambulance,” she said.

When the couple arrived at the ambulance, however, it had “people in it that needed much more help than me, so we proceeded to find an Uber which thankfully gave us a ride,” she said.

Lane said she and Helmick have “endless amounts of blessings to be thankful for every day because we’re still here.” Still, the incident has “impacted our lives in more ways than one,” she added.

“We don’t like to be apart for long periods of time, we stick together especially at night,” Lane, from Tustin, Calif., said.

But the country music-loving couple is moving forward. They’ve even set a date for their wedding: August 3.

“Our relationship has always meant the world to me,” said Lane. “But when someone sacrifices their life for you, how could you ever get more reassurance than that?”Getting your hands on a lobster roll might be a bit trickier than usual as a shortage of the shellfish has caused prices to soar.

Due to a combination of international demand, bad weather in the Northeast and frozen fisheries in Canada, lobster prices have skyrocketed to as high as $15 a pound in the Northeast, nearly double the cost of last year, the Boston Globe reports. That price is even higher for the pre-shucked meat chefs buy for rolls, which is currently selling for around $40 per pound.

AIRLINE TO PAY TWO PEOPLE TO MOVE TO ICELAND AND TRAVEL THE WORLD

After surveying menu prices around Boston, the Globe found the cost of many lobster dishes to be outrageously high. A lobster roll, which typically sells for around $24 in the area, was going for as much as $49 at one restaurant. Another restaurateur claimed he was losing money on each lobster roll he sold.

A post shared by North Square Oyster (@northsquareoyster) on Mar 18, 2018 at 2:27pm PDT

The paper reports that lobster prices are seasonal, with March and April being the worst months in terms of pricing. This year has been especially bad as the windy wet weather that came along with several Nor’easters resulted in fewer fisherman on the water. Additionally, federal law limits the number of boats allowed to enter Maine’s lobster fisheries, resulting in heavier reliance on Canadian fisheries, which have also been affected by winter weather, according to the Globe.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Luckily, these high prices will likely decrease as the temperature rises. Beth Casoni, executive director of the Massachusetts Lobstermen’s Association, expects the cost to be around $6 a pound by summer, the Globe reports.A sweeping analysis of auto sales suggests SUVs are the longest-lasting vehicles on the road.

Automotive marketplace iSeeCars.com looked at 13.5 million car sales that occurred in 2017 and listed the 10 models that had the highest percentage of examples trading hands with 200,000 miles on their odometers.

The Toyota Sequioa topped the list with 6.6 percent racking up at least that many miles, followed by the Ford Expedition at 5.6 percent and the Chevrolet suburban with 5.2 percent. All told, body-on-frame SUVs took seven of the top 10 spots, which were rounded out with one sedan, one pickup and one minivan. Here’s the full list:

Toyota Sequoia - 6.6

Ford Expedition - 5.4

Chevrolet Suburban - 5.2

Toyota 4Runner - 4.2

GMC Yukon XL - 3.9

Chevrolet Tahoe - 3.8

GMC Yukon - 2.8

Toyota Tacoma - 2.6

Toyota Avalon - 2.4

Honda Odyssey - 2.4

The overall average was 1.2 percent, and the top 10 vehicles excluding trucks were all sedans and minivans:

Toyota Avalon - 2.4

Honda Odyssey - 2.4

Honda Accord - 2.0

Ford Taurus - 1.8

Toyota Sienna - 1.7

Toyota Camry - 1.5

Chevrolet Impala - 1.5

Toyota Prius - 1.3

Nissan Maxima - 1.3

Chrysler Pacifica - 1.3

Only .1 percent of vehicles were able to make it to 300,000 miles, but the trucks topped that list as well, with .3 percent of Toyota 4Runners hitting that mark. The Suburban, Sequoia, Expedition and Tacoma all tied for second at .2 percent.

Of course, just because a vehicle is relatively immortal doesn’t mean it doesn’t need a little help along the way. A recent survey conducted by Consumer Reports pegged the cars and trucks most likely to reach 200,000 miles without any major repairs and the results had a few familiar names from the iSeeCars.com list:

Toyota Camry

Honda Accord

Toyota Prius

Honda CR-V

Toyota Sienna

Honda Civic

Toyota Corolla

Toyota 4Runner

Toyota Highlander

Ford F-150More than a year after being admitted to a British hospital and afflicted with a still-undiagnosed neurological ailment, Baby Alfie Evans is being killed by court order. His case defies all logic, and it brings me back to my experiences at the bedside of two other people who faced the same kind of injustice.

Among the most profound moments of my life and ministry was being at the bedside of Terri Schindler Schiavo as she was dehydrated and starved to death by court order in Florida in 2005. Only a short list of people, approved by the family and the court, could even enter her room. I was among them.

I have written before about the armed police officers who stood around Terri’s bed and at the door of her room to make sure no one slipped her a sip of water to ease her suffering as she lay dying of thirst. But right next to her head was a vase of flowers, lush and bursting with color as they soaked up the water in the vase. It was absurd.

Terri’s death was neither quick nor painless. It took nearly two weeks, her family standing by, ensnared in a nightmare that not even the most sadistic mind could have contrived. We saw her face, locked in an expression of horrified sadness, as she dehydrated to death, and it’s an image that will live in my memory forever. So will the image of the flowers.

While the hospital has once again begun feeding Baby Alfie, there is no guarantee it will to continue. To imagine what happened to Terri Schiavo being experienced by this precious 23-month-old child is more than many of us can bear. And as with Terri Schiavo, the overall disregard the hospital has shown him is outrageously unfair and completely unnecessary.

Tom Evans and Kate James, Alfie’s parents, don’t want anything from England, or Alder Hey Hospital, other than to be allowed to wrap their arms around their precious child and carry him out of the hospital where he has been a patient since December 2016. An ambulance is waiting outside to take him to a medical jet, which will fly him to Bambino Gesu Hospital in Rome, where life is sacred and bursting with possibility. Pope Francis supports this move. The Italian government has granted Baby Alfie citizenship.

But doctors and judges won’t let Baby Alfie’s parents exercise the right that is already theirs. Terri Schiavo’s parents were deprived of that right as well, because her husband wanted her to die. But in Baby Alfie’s case, the family is united. His parents should be the final authority in deciding about his care, not the doctors who say his treatment is futile, nor the judges who can’t seem to see beyond their hallowed halls.

Baby Alfie’s parents -- at 20 and 21, wise beyond their years – reached out to me in this case for help. They understand that the mysterious and as-yet-undiagnosed illness afflicting their son might well claim his life, but they are willing take the chance that a treatment might yet be discovered. And they understand there might be no such treatment.

This is not unlike the situation of another couple who also reached out to me about their baby boy back in 2011. Moe and Sana Maraachli’s child, who came to be known around the world as Baby Joseph, was in a hospital in London, Ontario, suffering from the same illness that claimed the life of their older child. They knew Baby Joseph would succumb as well, but they wanted him to have the basic care he needed – starting with a simple tracheotomy. But the hospital refused to provide it.

With the help of Priests for Life and many others, the hospital finally agreed to let him go. An air ambulance was donated by Kalitta MedFlight, and I flew to Ontario to meet Baby Joseph and his dad. A midnight flight took the three of us to Cardinal Glennon Children’s Hospital in St. Louis. Baby Joseph got the care he needed in St. Louis, and once he was able to breathe stably on his own, was allowed to go home where he lived for another six months with his loving parents and brother.

If Alder Hey Hospital has its way, Baby Alfie will die in a hospital unwilling to treat him or to let others do so. No one, not even the medical staff or the judges who ruled against every appeal, can expect these parents will ever be the same after standing by helpless as their son was murdered by court order.

None of us will ever be quite the same. Nor should we. Whether it approaches naturally or unnaturally, we can sometimes break the advance of death, and other times not. But we can always break the silence.The most-viewed eclipse in history had an unexpected witness: A Google Street View car drove right to the edge of totality, offering a surprising celestial treat for visitors scoping out the event in Maryland Heights, Missouri.

The intrepid car captured the darkened sky, streetlamps flickering on and even skywatching pedestrians on the vehicle's travels through the path of the 2017 total solar eclipse in August. Michael Kentrianakis, an eclipse chaser and member of the American Astronomical Society's Solar Eclipse Task Force, told Space.com about the eye-catching view this past weekend at the 2018 Northeast Astronomy Forum (an annual gathering of thousands of skywatchers in Suffern, New York) after seeing reports of the view circulating online.

"I guess those Google vans photographing every road on the planet don't stop for nothing," Kentrianakis wrote on Facebook. "Not even during the night of a total solar eclipse." [The Most Amazing Photos of the 2017 Solar Eclipse]

Kentrianakis showed off some highlights on Facebook: a woman looking up at the sky in darkness, bright streetlights and even a "diamond ring" of light from the sun circling the dark sphere of the moon.

Check out the map below to search for your own landmarks; a drive on the streets reveals a number of routes with darkened skies, glowing clouds and passersby preparing telescopes and eclipse glasses. Just outside totality (head back one click), you can see crescent shadows forming in the shadow trees during the partial eclipse.

Original article on Space.com.Pepper, a multipurpose human-shaped robot, design by Softbank, is the first robot to be adopted in Japanese homes.

Pepper the robot certainly gets around. Besides welcoming folks at departments stores and airports, the friendly android is also helping out at Pizza Hut and even working as a Buddhist priest. It recently put in a spell at a grocery store in Scotland, too, though admittedly that didn’t work out so well.

The diminutive droid’s latest gig is at the Smithsonian in Washington, D.C. The organization claims to be “the first museum, research, and education complex in the world to experiment with this new and innovative technology,” and is using 25 of the robots across its various locations in D.C.

Built by Japanese telecoms giant SoftBank in collaboration with French robotics firm Aldebaran SAS, Pepper can recognize faces and emotions, and respond through voice or by showing messages and information on its torso-based tablet. It can also be programmed with data specific to its workplace in order to provide the best possible experience for humans who interact with it.

The Smithsonian’s Pepper robots can “answer frequently asked questions, tell stories, and collect limited information, as well as dance, play games, and pose for selfies.” Pose for selfies? It’s all set, then.

The hope is that the “novel interactive experience” provided by Pepper will be able to help solve common problems associated with places like museums, such as encouraging visitors to make their way to under-attended galleries, and getting them to engage more with the various exhibits.

At the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African Art, for example, Pepper will be translating Kiswahilli phrases at the upcoming World on the Horizon exhibit, while its ARTLAB+ educational space will have Pepper teaching students coding and software engineering.

“When you meet Pepper, you can’t help but smile,” said Rachel Goslins, director of the Arts and Industry Building, who’s leading the program. “We’re eager to experiment with how Pepper can help us support docents and educators in the vital work they do while providing a fun and surprising experience for the millions of children and adults who visit us each year.”

If you happen to be in Washington, D.C. anytime soon and you’d like to finally meet Pepper, you’ll find the robot at these locations: The National Museum of African American History and Culture, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, the Smithsonian Castle, National Museum of African Art, and the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center. Full details are available here.

Want to see Pepper in action? Check out how Digital Trends got on with the bot when we bumped into it a while back.A hacker managed to phish cryptocurrency holders on Tuesday morning by briefly hijacking internet traffic from MyEtherWallet.com.

For about two hours, the hacker re-routed traffic from the cryptocurrency wallet provider to a lookalike version of the site. The bogus site secretly funneled any deposits in the Ether virtual currency to a hacker-controlled address.

Unfortunately, dozens of people may have fell for the scheme. The hacker-controlled address shows it receiving about 180 transactions during the incident, before transferring 215 in Ether (or about $151,000) to a separate wallet.

UK-based security researcher Kevin Beaumont noticed the attack and said the culprit was ran the fake MyEtherWallet site from a server in Russia. The hacker also appears to be quite wealthy, and controls a wallet that contains $17 million in Ether.

To pull off the phishing scheme, the hacker exploited the Domain Name System, or how the web routes traffic. The DNS essentially acts as the internet's phone book, translating domain names to IP addresses so that your computer can visit a website.

How the hackers tampered with the DNS traffic isn't clear. But Beaumont said in his blog post that it involved re-routing traffic from Amazon's internet infrastructure, which is used by many major websites.

MyEtherWallet confirmed the incident but insisted it was "not due to a lack of security on the @myetherwallet platform." Instead, it blamed "a decade-old hacking technique [whereby] hackers find... vulnerabilities in public facing DNS servers."

"A majority of the affected users were using Google DNS servers. We recommend all our users to switch to Cloudflare DNS servers in the meantime," according to MyEtherWallet, which also urged people "to ignore any tweets, reddit posts, or messages of any kind which claim to be giving away or reimbursing ETH on behalf of MEW (MyEtherWallet)."

People who visited the hacker's MyEtherWallet page during the incident would've encountered a pop-up on their browser, warning them that the site was a running an untrusted digital certificate. However, users may have ignored the alert, not realizing it meant the site was a fake.

But perhaps the larger worry is whether the hacker can pull off the hijacking again. In his blog post, Beaumont said no one noticed the attack until after it stopped, and other sites may have been targeted, too.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.The Gmail interface is comfortably familiar. Unless you've started using the more simplified, predictive Inbox app, Google's ubiquitous email client has stayed more or less the same for quite a while.

Today, however, Google announced a bevy of updates including the first major redesign of Gmail's web interface in years.

The redesigned Gmail web interface is focused on quick productivity actions. Google is introducing features like attachments chips, hover actions, and hover cards to make the static inbox experience more interactive without the need for mulitple clicks.

Google is also surfacing several labs features that were previously hidden in Settings > Labs, like canned responses, the ability to create multiple inboxes, and a preview pane to customize your preferences for different inboxes.

The new Gmail is available today for all personal Gmail users and G Suite early adopter program (EAP) customers, but all are intended to boost team productivity, according to David Thacker, VP Product Management for G Suite.

Gmail is getting deeper G Suite intergations to directly create and edit Google Calendar invites, send notes to Google Keep, and manage to-do items in Tasks. Google is also releasing new Tasks mobile apps for Android and iOS for adding and editing tasks from your smartphone to manage in Calendar and Gmail. The Tasks app is available today in the iOS App Store and Google Play Store.

Aside from the new-look web app and Tasks mobile apps, Google also announced new security features, including Gmail confidential mode, and expanded AI capabilities like smart replies and notification priority settings.

Confidential mode is the biggest new Gmail security feature. This lets users not only lock a message containing sensitive information, but lets you set an expiration date for when the email will disappear, the same way an ephemeral message would on Snapchat. If a message is locked, it needs to be authenticated either by granting access or using additional two-factor authentication via SMS.

There's also more granular control in confidential mode over what the recepient can do you with that email, including the ability for senders to enable or revoke privileges like forwarding or downloading attachments. Google redesigned Gmail's security warnings to more prominently label potential phishing traps or other high-risk emails, a welcome addition especially given Gmail's recent scam issues.

The more subtle aspect of Gmail's redesign is on the intelligence side. Google is building AI into all its products, and there are a handful of new smart Gmail features rolling out as part of the update. One big productivity-focused addition is a Nudging feature, where Gmail will proactively remind you to follow up and respond to messages.

There's a new high-priority notification setting as well. When enabled, users will only get notifications for impoortant messages to help reduce the clutter and noise in the everyday email experience. Google will also pop up new elements called unsubscribe cards recommending you unsubscribe from senders or mailing lists that frequently end up unopened or deleted.

Gmail's offline capabilities have been bolstered as well, allowing you to search, write, respond, delete, or archive up to 90 days of messages while offline. Finally, Google is expanding Smart Reply, which had previously only been available in mobile apps, to the Gmail web interface.

Nudging, offline support, and confidential mode will roll out to all users in the next few weeks, Thacker said.

This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.Ford is eliminating nearly all of its car models in North America as it reinvents itself as a utility vehicle-focused brand in an effort to improve its operating efficiency and profit margin.

The Taurus, Fusion, Fiesta and C-Max will be discontinued, leaving only the Mustang and a new crossover-style compact called the Focus Active in showrooms alongside its growing lineup of SUVs.

The move comes just a few weeks after the automaker announced plans to have eight utility vehicles on sale by 2020, including a new Bronco and an all-electric performance model codename Mach 1. The Focus Active is not counted among these.

Ford didn’t reveal the fate of the sedans that are currently in Lincoln’s lineup, but said the luxury division as a whole is not in jeopardy despite it being a low performing area in the company.

Sedans and hatchbacks will continue to be offered in other markets around the world.

With APFolks at a gym in Florida got an adrenaline rush on Sunday morning when a Tesla crashed through a wall and crunched some equipment.

No one was injured in the accident, which occurred an Anytime Fitness in a strip mall in the Tampa-area town of Lutz.

According to a Florida Highway Patrol police report, the driver was attempting to park in the lot outside the building when she said the car “would not stop and accelerated forward,” where it went through the glass of an empty storefront before breaking through the connecting wall with the gym.

Security camera footage obtained by WFTS News shows the 2017 Model X SUV busting into the gym only a couple of feet away from a man getting off of a treadmill.

The automaker has not released any information it has on this specific incident, but a company spokesperson said that it investigates all accidents where a driver says their Tesla “suddenly” or “unexpectedly” accelerated, and that the vehicles have always operated as designed.

The police report estimates that the car caused $7,500 in damage to the building and gym.

The Florida Highway Patrol has not yet confirmed whether or not there is an ongoing investigation to Fox News.A father in England let his adorable 2-year-old drive his toy Range Rover through a McDonald’s drive-thru to order lunch, and the hamburger giant doesn’t want it to happen again.

Paul Turner told The Sun that he had walked to the restaurant in Doncaster with his son, Austin, and saw that there were no cars in the drive-thru lane, so he thought it would be cute to let him cruise up to the window and order a cheeseburger.

With a big grin on his face, Austin pulled up in the electric ride-on and just said ‘I want a cheeseburger,’ then handed over the money to pay for it.

"The staff thought it was hilarious and some others came over to see what was going on,” Turner said.

Apparently the folks at corporate headquarters didn’t feel the same way.

A spokeswoman told The Sun: "Our drive-thru lanes are specifically designed for roadworthy motor vehicles, and only people in such vehicles will be served. Anyone attempting to use a different mode of transport will be asked to make their order inside. In this instance by serving the child and his parent, our restaurant team did not follow this procedure – and those involved have been reminded of the policy.”

It’s not the first time McDonald’s has had to address its stance, which has come to light on several occasions in the U.K. when cyclists and horseback riders have been spotted using drive-thru lanes.

SEE MORE PHOTOS OF AUSTIN'S ADVENTURE IN THE SUNA sweeping analysis of auto sales suggests SUVs are the longest-lasting vehicles on the road.

Automotive marketplace iSeeCars.com looked at 13.5 million car sales that occurred in 2017 and listed the 10 models that had the highest percentage of examples trading hands with 200,000 miles on their odometers.

The Toyota Sequioa topped the list with 6.6 percent racking up at least that many miles, followed by the Ford Expedition at 5.6 percent and the Chevrolet suburban with 5.2 percent. All told, body-on-frame SUVs took seven of the top 10 spots, which were rounded out with one sedan, one pickup and one minivan. Here’s the full list:

Toyota Sequoia - 6.6

Ford Expedition - 5.4

Chevrolet Suburban - 5.2

Toyota 4Runner - 4.2

GMC Yukon XL - 3.9

Chevrolet Tahoe - 3.8

GMC Yukon - 2.8

Toyota Tacoma - 2.6

Toyota Avalon - 2.4

Honda Odyssey - 2.4

The overall average was 1.2 percent, and the top 10 vehicles excluding trucks were all sedans and minivans:

Toyota Avalon - 2.4

Honda Odyssey - 2.4

Honda Accord - 2.0

Ford Taurus - 1.8

Toyota Sienna - 1.7

Toyota Camry - 1.5

Chevrolet Impala - 1.5

Toyota Prius - 1.3

Nissan Maxima - 1.3

Chrysler Pacifica - 1.3

Only .1 percent of vehicles were able to make it to 300,000 miles, but the trucks topped that list as well, with .3 percent of Toyota 4Runners hitting that mark. The Suburban, Sequoia, Expedition and Tacoma all tied for second at .2 percent.

Of course, just because a vehicle is relatively immortal doesn’t mean it doesn’t need a little help along the way. A recent survey conducted by Consumer Reports pegged the cars and trucks most likely to reach 200,000 miles without any major repairs and the results had a few familiar names from the iSeeCars.com list:

Toyota Camry

Honda Accord

Toyota Prius

Honda CR-V

Toyota Sienna

Honda Civic

Toyota Corolla

Toyota 4Runner

Toyota Highlander

Ford F-150NASCAR veteran Matt Kenseth is returning to the series with Roush Fenway Racing.

The 46-year-old was replaced by 21-year-old Erik Jones at Joe Gibbs Racing at the end of last year as part of a youth movement for the team.

Roush Fenway announced on Wednesday that Kenseth with be splitting time in the No. 6 Ford Fusion with Trevor Bayne, starting at the May 12 race at Kansas Speedway.

The 2003 NASCAR Cup champ will also compete in the All-Star race the following weekend in Charlotte, but the team’s plans for the rest of the 2018 season have not yet been revealed.

Kenseth won the penultimate race of the 2017 season at Phoenix, which marked the 39th victory of his career.

Bayne, the 2011 Daytona 500 winner, hasn't led a lap this season and is currently 26th in the standings.BMW will be taking on Tesla in stealth mode, if its new electric vehicle concept is anything to go by.

The iX3 debuting at the Beijing Motor Show is a battery-powered SUV is an evolution of the brand’s popular X3, with a distinctive grille and bodywork modifications.

BMW says it has a 270 hp motor, which is stronger than the standard X3’s, and a range of 249 miles per charge.

Critically, BMW claims it can be charged in just 30 minutes at a 150 kWh charging station, which is on par, if not faster than a Tesla Model X using the automaker’s proprietary Supercharger network.

A production version of the iX3 is set to go on sale for 2020, and will be one of 25 all-electric models BMW will introduce by 2025.

SECRETS OF JAGUAR'S ELECTRIC iPACE SUV:Thai Zebra spiders have crawled out of their dirt burrows in the forests of Cambodia onto the tables of a North Carolina restaurant – and people are going wild for the crunchy garnish on their burger.

“When I got done, I was like I can enjoy another one right now. It’s strange….but the flavor is good,” said Mark Christmann after trying the Tarantula Burger at Bull City Burger and Brewery in Durham, N.C. for the first time.

To eat the burger, patrons have to go through a lottery. Daredevils pay $30 to put their name on a raffle ticket and the restaurant draws a winner from a box about every other day. The winner, announced on Facebook and Twitter, has 48 hours to respond with a date and time to take on the Tarantula Challenge.

“Once I actually put aside the fact that it was a spider, once I ate it, it wasn’t bad. It was really crunchy,” 17-year-old Anthony Jarvis told Fox News.

He is a repeat offender, devouring the gargantuan burger adorned with a big, black tarantula every year for the past three years.

The restaurant hosts the challenge every April to play its part in Exotic Meat Month. For the past three years, the Tarantula Challenge has grown in popularity.

“It’s everybody…we’ve had kids, adults. I mean, every type of person,” said Seth Gross, the owner of the restaurant. “There’s something thrilling about eating your fear.”

Gross said surprisingly, many people who have braved the restaurant’s Tarantula Challenge have a fear of spiders.

“If they can get through this, they can conquer their fear or, at least, (get to) eat it for a day,” Gross said.

Christmann, who took on the challenge said he doesn’t have a fear of spiders – it is quite the opposite.

“I love spiders,” Christmann told Fox News. “That’s actually the only thing that was making me kind of not want to do it.…. I don’t know how I feel consciously about eating them.”

Christmann says after reading about Bull City’s challenge on social media, he was instantly intrigued.

“It’s not something you see every day, especially with exotic meat,” he said.

The restaurant manager said there are three ways customers usually eat the burgers: the Band-Aid approach, where “they just pick up the spider and eat it. Get it over with.” Others, Gross explained, “have one leg at a time and it takes them a while to get it down.”

Other customers slather the burger with a little bit of everything. They “just put the bun on top and eat it like a burger with everything and you don’t taste it so much,” Gross said.

Gross said the restaurant initially started by serving bug burgers, which had scorpions, larvae and crickets in it.

“Then,” he said, “we started learning about spiders that are eaten in Cambodia, the zebra tarantula, and we created the Tarantula Challenge.”

At the restaurant recently, while chefs flipped the sizzling medium-well beef burger over a hot grill in the kitchen, Christmann said he thought about how it would taste. He used words like “crunchy” and “spidery gusher” to describe the burger.

“I hope it tastes good,” Christmann said. “I mean it could be strange. I’d be alright with that. But as long as it doesn’t taste slimy or, like, overly crunchy.”

Christmann ended up eating the grass-fed beef burger with gruyere cheese, an oven-roasted tarantula and spicy chili paste in less than eight bites.

“When I first sink my teeth into it, there’s a lot of crunch,” he said. “Imagine snapping twigs, that’s what I heard in my head when I was biting. Twigs snapping, a lot of them.”

He described the taste as earthy with a hint of “middle eastern spices, like sumac.”

Not only does he get the bragging rights for eating it, but he was also given a white t-shirt from the restaurant to trumpet his bravery.

The Tarantula Challenge ends on the last day of April. This year, 18 tarantulas were purchased for the challenge, but next year the owners say the meat of choice could range from an exotic fish to bull testicles.A dessert dish that South Korea plans to serve at Friday’s summit with the North has enraged Japan, which is demanding the “distasteful offering” not be served.

The mango mousse – dubbed “Spring of the People” in a publicity photograph — depicts the small islands known as Takeshima in Japan and Dokdo in Korea — islets whose sovereignty is disputed by Tokyo. They lie in the Sea of Japan, which Seoul refers to as the East Sea.

“It is extremely regrettable,” a Japanese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said Wednesday, adding that Japan had lodged a protest about the distasteful offering, according to Reuters. “We have asked that the dessert not be served.”

Japan complained to South Korea about fans waving a flag with a similar design at a recent friendly women’s ice hockey game at the Winter Paralympics between the combined Koreas team and Sweden.

The bitter controversy comes as North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon Jae-in prepare to meet to discuss Pyongyang’s nuclear weapons program on Friday.

Relations between the Koreas and Japan have long been strained by territorial disputes and simmering resentment over Japanese colonization of the Korean peninsula in the first half of last century.

Tokyo has also protested against the erection of statues commemorating Korean women and girls forced to work in Japanese military brothels during World War II.

Seoul says that Tokyo has yet to apologize for its wartime actions.

But Moon and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe have vowed to present a united front and exert pressure on Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear and missile programs.

The North-South summit in the village of Panmunjom is expected to be followed by a meeting between Kim and President Trump in May or June.

This article originally appeared on the New York Post.From managing her booming Magnolia brand to her busy household, Joanna Gaines has no time for mistakes in the kitchen, making the “Fixer Upper” star’s recent revelation of her culinary essentials all the more intriguing.

“I always have milk. I always have buttermilk, butter, eggs, bacon for Chip and the boys, and then I always love having a spring salad mix,” the soon-to-be mother of five told Food & Wine in an April 24 interview promoting her highly anticipated cookbook, “Magnolia Table.”

MCDONALD'S NEW RESTAURANT WILL FEATURE FOOD FROM AROUND THE WORLD

The news comes as no surprise to Gaines’ loyal fans, whose mouths have been watering for the supermom’s recipes for classics such as chocolate chip cookies, lemon pie, French toast, quiche and mac and cheese ever since “Fixer Upper” first hit airwaves. Later in the interview, the 40-year-old design maven also divulged her favorite dishes to serve at a dinner party.

“I like to serve a casserole, but I also love appetizers. I love when my family and friends come and gather around the island, and they’re eating dips. That’s fun for conversation, while I’m finishing dinner,” she said. “Casseroles are nice because they feed a lot of people. I like artichoke dip, queso, guacamole—anything that you can dip a chip in, that’s me.”

Gaines added that her kids Drake, 13, Ella Rose, 11, Duke, 9 and Emmy Kay, 8, like to help her make “anything with dough” as “they love rolling and cutting things out.”

“Cinnamon rolls — I love making cinnamon rolls and the Syrian doughnuts that are in the book,” Gaines said. “I made chicken potpie yesterday and they love to peel potatoes, so they peel the potatoes for me.”

POPE FRANCIS GAVE OUT FREE ICE CREAM IN ROME FOR SAINT GEORGE'S DAY

As the family of six prepares to welcome a new baby boy, Gaines said that her four youngsters are getting a kick of her pregnancy cravings for all things sugary and sweet.

“My kids are loving life right now because normally we’re pretty strict about what we eat in the mornings, and now they’re eating all this really sugary cereal,” she joked.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWSDinner service at a Burger King in Waukesha, Wis., reportedly came to a stop on Monday night after a brawl broke out behind the counter.

NEW MCDONALD'S RESTAURANT WILL FEATURE MENU ITEMS FROM AROUND THE WORLD

Footage from inside the restaurant shows two women fighting near the drive-thru window, one of whom was reported to be a customer.

It’s unclear what exactly started the fight, but employees can be seen attempting to pry the women apart. Once they’re separated, a man in a baseball cap stands between the two to keep the customer from landing any more blows.

"Just sad. Just very sad. This kind of makes you scared to go to different places anymore," said one person who spoke with Fox 6 News.

"You don't know what to expect when you walk into a restaurant and order food," said another.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Police say one person has been arrested following the incident.

A representative for the restaurant declined to comment for Fox 6 News.A Florida fisherman recently caught a 120-pound blue catfish in the state’s panhandle, the Florida Fish and Wildlife Commission (FWC) announced on Monday.

While fishing on the Choctawhatchee River, Joel Singletary snagged the massive creature on his trotline. He wasn't sure if he was going to be able to pull it onto his boat, but then the “adrenaline kicked in enabling him to pull the behemoth fish onboard,” according to the FWC.

The "granddaddy of all catfish" weighed 120 pounds — 1.7 times more than the current state record of nearly 70 pounds, the FWC said.

While the fish is large enough to break the record, Singletary’s catch does not qualify as one because it was caught on a trotline, according to the FWC.

However, the fisherman was still awarded a “Big Catch" certificate because the blue catfish weighed more than 25 pounds.

A representative for the FWC was not immediately available for additional comment when contacted by Fox News on Wednesday.Melania Trump’s hat wasn’t the only thing catching people’s attention in Washington D.C. Tuesday. Reality TV star Kourtney Kardashian made an unlikely appearance in the Capitol to speak at a briefing on regulatory reform of the cosmetics industry.

The eldest Kardashian spoke alongside Rep. Frank Pallone Jr., the top Democrat on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, and members of the nonprofit Environmental Working Group (EWG), to urge lawmakers to approve more regulation on cosmetics and personal care products, the New York Times reports.

FLYBE PLANE MAKES EMERGENCY LANDING AFTER COCKPIT WINDSHIELD CRACKS

Kardashian, a known advocate for organic and healthy living, teamed up with EWG for their #BeautyMadeBetter campaign, which is raising awareness about “the need for real cosmetics safety reform,” as it’s been 80 years since the United States last passed a law regulating the safety of personal care products, according to the EWG website.

“For too long, cosmetics companies have not had any requirement to verify the safety of their cosmetic and personal care products,” Rep. Pallone said at the briefing per the Times. “This simply cannot continue and I’m pleased that Kourtney is here today to lend her voice to those supporting cosmetics reform.”

Kardashian, who has three kids, said becoming a mom is what got her interested in the ingredients found in the products she and her family use. “As a mom, you really take so much interest in the products…I remember learning from my mom's friends that [many baby products] were not healthy at all,” Kardashian said at the briefing per People.

“Even going into a store to buy just about anything … you shouldn’t have to walk around aimlessly asking ‘Is this OK?’ ‘Is this not OK?’ Everybody should have the right to healthy products. I do feel like it’s time for Congress to do its job,” Kardashian said.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Kardashian’s interest in the cosmetic industry goes beyond a personal level. Her sisters Kim Kardashian West and Kylie Jenner have their own wildly successful cosmetics lines, and Kardashian recently teamed up with Jenner for a Kylie Cosmetics collaboration that coincidentally launched Tuesday, while she was in D.C.Could this be President Trump’s doppelganger in Spain?

Social media users eagerly shared news of a "Trump look-alike" living in Spain after a photo of a Spanish farmer, Dolores Leis Antelo, who lives on a farm in Cabana de Bergantinos district, went viral over the past few days.

A post shared by P a u l a (@trintadenovembro) on Apr 20, 2018 at 5:14am PDT

Freelance journalist Paula Vazquez last week first shared the picture of the farmer holding a hoe and standing in a field.

MELANIA TRUMP'S WHITE HAT EARNING PRAISE DESPITE ONLINE CRITICS

"Dolores was going to her farm to pick some cabbages," Vazquez told Spanish news site Faro de Vigo on Tuesday. "So I talked with her for a while, while a girlfriend was taking pictures of her, I took the opportunity to take another one [photo] with my cellphone.”

Vasquez posted the photo of Dolores on her Instagram and Facebook pages, thinking nothing of it. She initially didn’t even see the resemblance Dolores had to Trump.

People quickly began noticing the resemblance between Dolores and Trump within days. Some even began referring to her as “the cousin that Donald Trump has in Galicia.”

MEGHAN MARKLE WEARS BOLD BLACK HAT TO MEMORIAL SERVICE FOLLOWING DRESS CONTROVERSY

The photo was largely shared on WhatsApp, a free messaging and voice app. Faro de Vigo reported that users who shared the photo captioned it with, "Donald Trump is incognito in Costa da Morte, more specifically in Nantón, in Cabana de Bergantiños. He put on his official peasant clothing with the sacho in his hand,” according to the translation.

Twitter user @Laboreiro also shared the image last Saturday on his feed with the caption: “Donald Trump in Costa da Morte.” The post received more than 5,100 retweets and 9,000 likes.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Vasquez said Dolores isn’t mad about the comparison, either. She’s actually “charmed,” claimed the journalist.The Internet was abuzz on Tuesday with chatter, and plenty of jokes, about the wide-brimmed white hat worn by Melania Trump when welcoming French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife Brigitte to the White House — but it’s the first lady who may be having the last laugh.

Despite the mockery and memes that stemmed from Melania’s hat, her bold choice also earned its share of admirers on Twitter, in the fashion world, and even in the media.

MELANIA TRUMP'S HAT DRAWS COMPARISONS TO OLIVIA POPE, BEYONCE

CNN’s Brooke Baldwin, for instance, described Melania’s look as “stunning,” and said her hat was “stealing the show” during an on-air interview with fashion designer Naeem Khan, who has previously dressed first lady Michelle Obama.

“I love the hat, actually,” Khan said after Baldwin asked his opinion.

“I love the hat too,” Baldwin replied.

Baldwin’s sentiments were partially echoed in the outlet’s online coverage as well.

“Trump sported a crisp white $2,195 Michael Kors Collection belted asymmetric crepe blazer and skirt suit,” wrote CNN. “Stealing the show, however, was wide-brimmed white hat, designed by Hervé Pierre, according to a White House official.”

Today.com too wrote that Melania’s “dramatic” choice of hat “stole the show,” adding that the first lady’s entire ensemble was “striking.”

MEGHAN MARKLE WEARS BOLD BLACK HAT TO MEMORIAL SERVICE FOLLOWING DRESS CONTROVERSY

And even among the many Twitter users comparing Melania’s hat to Olivia Pope from “Scandal,” or Beyonce from the singer’s “Formation” video, there was lots of love to go around on social media.

Oddly enough, the hat’s designer has since revealed that the item itself almost didn’t make it to the state visit unscathed. After fashioning the hat from the same material as the Michael Kors suit, Pierre told the Los Angeles Times that security officials at the airport searched and X-rayed the hat against his wishes.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

"I told them, 'I know I have to go through security but there is nothing in that hat. I can guarantee you. It is beyond fragile,’” Pierre recalled.

"Eventually, they had to put it through the X-ray machine. It makes me mad, but it is what it is. I have no choice. I understand the rules."Two days after being chastised on social media for wearing an inappropriate outfit to a memorial service for a murder victim, Meghan Markle opted for a decidedly more conservative look at a dawn Anzac Day memorial service alongside her fiancé, Prince Harry.

KATE MIDDLETON’S CUSTOM-MADE HOSPITAL DRESS PROBABLY COSTS OVER $3,000, EXPERTS ESTIMATE

On Wednesday, the future royal stepped out in a wide brimmed black hat, fitted gray trench coat and high neck, black long-sleeved dress paired with Sarah Flint heels and a Gucci bag, style blog Meghan's Mirror reports.

Both Markle and the prince wore poppy flowers on their lapel, in remembrance of those who died in combat. Prince Harry also sported three war medals earned through his military service in Iran and Afghanistan, People reports.

Some Twitter commentators likened Markle’s look to the all-white ensemble with matching hat that First Lady Melania Trump wore to welcome French Prime Minister Emmanuel Macron and his wife Brigitte the day prior.

Markle’s buttoned-up ensemble was a far cry from the sleeveless V-neck dress she wore two days earlier at a church memorial for Stephen Lawrence, an 18-year-old black man killed 25 years ago in a racially charged attack.

The former actress and her fiancé, too, appeared to be quite somber as they paid their respects at the Anzac Day ceremony. The holiday honors the first major battle involving Australian and New Zealand troops in World War One, People notes.

COUNTRY MUSIC STAR KELSEA BALLERINI WORKS OUT FOR A GOOD CAUSE

Later that day, Markle arrived at London’s Westminster Abbey for another Anzac Day service in a new look: an all-black ensemble with a matching beret, in which she greeted Prince William for the first time since he and Duchess Kate joyously welcomed their new son on April 23.

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

More exciting times are ahead for the British royal family, as Markle and her prince prepare to tie the knot at St. George’s Chapel on May 19.The newest rage looks to make your smile more dazzling with jewelry instead of teeth whitener.

Teeth jewelry has been spotted on celebrities such as Katy Perry, Pink and Hailey Baldwin, and one celebrity dentist claims anyone can now share that look, if they so choose.

Dr. Anjali Rajpal, a dentist for Perry and several other stars, told Us Weekly that celebrities are more frequently looking to add some bling in their smile.

“In the past it was big for rappers to have grills that are embedded with expensive jewels. The trend migrated to pop stars, male and female alike, because it’s not so serious and a lot of fun,” Rajpal told the magazine.

MELANIA TRUMP’S HAT DRAWS BEYONCE, OLIVIA POPE COMPARISONS

However, celebrities appear to be moving away from grills, which Rajpal described as being difficult to take out, eat, or speak with, and migrating toward diamonds on their choppers.

“Grills can be difficult because you have to take them out and they’re hard to speak and eat with, but what I’m doing now is adhering diamonds to the teeth and they can stay there all the time,” she explains.

The doctor said she is creating “unique, custom designs” to fit “the type of personality and style that you have" and some of her favorites include adding a diamond to a tooth, or making little heart motorcycles.

because why not 🤷🏼‍♀️💎💍💍 A post shared by Hailey Baldwin (@haileybaldwin) on Apr 7, 2017 at 1:09am PDT

“I like to make something fun and since there’s no damage to the tooth structure, if a patient wants something different, all I do is polish off the gem and polish back the tooth structure, so they can easily change it up,” she said.

COUNTRY MUSIC STAR KELSEA BALLERINI WORKS OUT FOR A GOOD CAUSE

Rajpal calls teeth art a “cool new trend” that she hopes will catch on.

“It’s such a conversation starter and it’s a cool new trend. We put jewelry on our necks, noses and ears, and your teeth are pearls already, so it’s nice to jewel them out,” she said.

The jewelry is available online for purchase, or some dentists and tattoo parlors offer to put the jewelry on your tooth or teeth.Small Business Administration chief Linda McMahon said Wednesday the jury is still out on Amazon’s effect on small business.

Continue Reading Below

“I think it’s still a mix. We are in the throes of taking a look at it,” McMahon said during an interview with FOX Business’ Stuart Varney.

The SBA administrator said Amazon provides startups with an opportunity to boost sales, but it at comes at a price.

“They’re startups that want to increase their sales, but they can pay high fees that reduce their margins,” McMahon said.

President Donald Trump slammed the e-commerce giant earlier this month -- his third attack on Amazon within the week -- via Twitter, accusing the California-based company of taking advantage of the U.S. Postal Service and putting retailers out of business.

Advertisement

"Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!" Trump wrote in a Tweet.

McMahon pointed out that struggling brick-and-mortar retailers are hurting because Amazon doesn’t collect a sales tax on third-party sellers.

“[Amazon is] out for themselves. They’re collecting those sales taxes, but for the third party, they are not collecting those taxes. Therefore, some small businesses are hurt by that,” she said.A Missouri pediatrician is not planning to apologize for his facility's Facebook post encouraging Kansas City-area residents to be "responsible" and get vacinated amid a measles "outbreak" in the area. While the doctor's office encourages healthy discussions, it said it's important to explain the "significance of vaccinations."

The vaccine — after two doses — makes 97 percent of people develop immunity to measles, a highly contagious virus that's airborne, Priority Care Pediatrics explained.

That's why the office requires patients to follow the Center for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) immunization guidelines, which the organization says "has led to a greater than 99% reduction in measles cases compared with the pre-vaccine era."

"While immunizations are still (inappropriately, unjustly, and selfishly) a hot-button for some, our practice ... and numerous other organizations and groups around the globe have reached the truthful conclusion that immunizations are overwhelmingly safe and effective," the doctor's office stated in a comment online. "Vaccines save lives. Period. End of discussion."

Some, however, begged to differ.

"Popping up everywhere...that's right, be smarter than your doctors and don't vaccinate," one Facebook user wrote, according to KHSB-TV. "Irresponsible parenting is alive and well."

"Vaccines save lives. Period. End of discussion." - Priority Care Pediatrics

"1 in 68 children have autism. 1 in 42 boys have autism. You'd think you'd actually be worried about that instead of a few cases of the measles," another reportedly added.

Priority Care Pediatrics has since deleted all negative posts and others that spread "unscientific, unresearched" information, adding it would not give critics a forum to bully.

Dr. Raymond Cattaneo, senior partner at Priority Care Pediatrics, told KHSB-TV he never expected the post to spark a big debate.

"[It] turned into something much bigger than that when some anti-vaccine people got a hold of that and bombarded our post. Reading comment after comment after comment you just kind of get worn down because you know you're fighting the good fight," Cattaneo said. "You're on the right side of science but you worry that what they're saying, people will actually believe."

But if it got people thinking about vaccinations, Cattaneo said it served its purpose.

"Critical thinking and debates are welcome and good for each of us. They might shape a thought process, or change a mind, or solidify an already reached decision," the office continued. "This is a learning opportunity for those still on the fence."

Dozens of people praised the Kansas City practice for standing its ground and educating the public on immunization.

"Thank you for helping prevent the spread of diseases we eradicated years ago! Vaccinate your kids!" one Facebook user replied.

"Thank you, Priority Care Pediatrics for mandating vaccines for all of your patients!" another commented.

At least four cases of the measles have been confirmed in the city so far, the Kansas City Health Department has reported. There have been at least 18 reports of the measles in Johnson, Miami and Linn counties since March, according to Fox4KC.

Signs of the measles include a sore throat, runny nose, and fever, among other cold-like symptoms, followed by a rash that spreads across the body, the CDC says. Anyone who believes they may have the measles should contact their health care provider immediately.Alfie Evans’ parents lost their latest attempt to overturn an appeal Wednesday that barred the terminally ill child from being taken to Rome for care.

The Court of Appeal rejected the appeal application by Evans' father, Tom Evans, 21, Sky News reported. Later, the court also rejected the appeal application by the toddler's mother, Kate James, 20.

"This is awful for everyone concerned. We are in the middle of palliative care plan at Alder Hey Hospital. I can see no basis that judge was wrong," Justice Andrew McFarlane said.

Evans' parents have fought to transport their 23-month-old son to a hospital in Rome for treatment. The toddler was taken off life support Monday after a series of court rulings backed by doctors who said further treatment was futile and the boy would most likely not get any better. The infant has been at the Alder Hey hospital in Liverpool after suffering a seizure in December 2016. Alfie is in a "semi-vegetative state" as a result of a degenerative neurological condition doctors have been unable to identify.

On Tuesday, a judge called the decision to reject the first appeal the “final chapter in the case of this extraordinary little boy,” The Guardian reported. The judge ruled the toddler is too ill to travel to Vatican City in Rome for treatment.

The toddler’s parents said Alfie was breathing on his own after being taken off life support, but the judge suggested it was in the parents’ best interests to “explore the options of removing him from intensive care either to a ward, a hospice or his home.”

James' lawyer said Wednesday that Alfie was "struggling" after he was taken off life support.

On Tuesday, Evans said the court of appeal contacted him regarding the case after the first appeal was rejected earlier that day.

“The court of appeal have reached out to us and said they are going to set back three judges to hear the case,” Evans said. “In reality he could be in Italy right now. We all know the military air force are ready to take him and a team of doctors are there."

ALFIE EVANS’ FAMILY LOSES APPEAL TO TRANSPORT TERMINALLY ILL BRITISH TODDLER TO ROME

Evans and James wanted to take Alfie to the Vatican’s Bambino Gesu Pediatric Hospital.

The months-long legal battle between Alfie's parents and his doctors has drawn interventions from Pope Francis and Italian authorities, who have supported the family's desire to have their son cared for at the Vatican's hospital.

On Monday, the Italian foreign ministry announced it granted Alfie Italian citizenship to facilitate his arrival and transport. The Daily Star reported a helicopter was at the hospital ready to take Alfie to Italy if allowed.

Pope Francis met last week with Alfie's father and has made appeals for the boy to be kept alive, saying only God can decide who dies.

ALFIE EVANS’ DAD GIVING TODDLER MOUTH-MOUTH RESUSCITATION TO ‘KEEP HIM ALIVE’

Under British law, it is common for courts to intervene when parents and doctors disagree on the treatment of a child. In such cases, the rights of the child take primacy over the parents' right to decide what's best for their offspring.

The emotive case recalls the short life of another British child, Charlie Gard, who died of a rare genetic disease in July 2017 after a vicious court battle in which his parents sought treatment first in the U.S. and then Italy.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.When Leah Solomon's husband forwarded her a letter he found under their front door, the Florida mother was shocked. Her jaw dropped as she read the page-long note calling her 16-year-old daughter with autism a "burden" and requesting the family move out immediately.

"I went into shock. As much as it hurt, it made my blood boil and I was fuming," Solomon told Fox News. "I was not going to let anyone refer to my daughter like that."

The letter, signed by "Plaza of Bal Harbour Residents," said tenants were tired of the "hefty" girl's "screaming and outbursts," lecturing the mom that the building pool is not a "babysitting facility."

"The choice is yours. Either you move out of the building on your own volition, or the residents of this building will take action and you will be forced to move," the letter read.

"We are doing the best we can as parents of such a complicated disability." - Leah Solomon

The "fuming" parents contacted the condo association, asking if they authorized the letter and whether they were at risk of being evicted.

Management at the condominium told the family they did not condone the "disturbing" letter, WPTV reports, clarifying that it was a tenant who drafted it.

Bal Harbour Mayor Gabriel Groisman said in a April 20 Facebook post that he was aware of the "ignorant" note and asked residents to "reject this kind of hatred and ignorance."

In response, Groisman said he has teamed up with the Bal Harbour Police Department and local government officials to create an autism awareness campaign.

"I can confirm that law enforcement is looking into this incident, and everyone must know that this hatred and discrimination has no place anywhere, and certainly not in Bal Harbour," he wrote.

Solomon said her daughter, Batsheva, is non-verbal and attends the South Florida Autism Charter School in Hialeah. She loves singing, YouTube and watching "Sesame Street."

While she admits it's "challenging" at times to raise a child with autism, Solomon emphasized there is "no other love like" it.

"Our children ... come to show us unconditional love," she continued. "It's important for parents of children with any disability to know they are not alone, and they should never allow people to hurt their children. We are doing the best we can as parents of such a complicated disability."

Solomon said she's working with the mayor and has since sought legal counsel. She also started a GoFundMe page in hopes of raising enough money to move out of the complex.A pair of former classmates who hardly knew each other while in school 50 years ago reunited recently, but it wasn’t to reminisce or catch up -- it was for a life-saving transplant that has bonded the pair for life.

Kenneth Walker, who was working as a bureau chief for National Public Radio in South Africa before his health issues brought him back to the U.S., was on several waiting lists for a kidney transplant when he decided to take matters into his own hands, Fox 5 DC reported. With his health failing, he sent a message to his Archbishop Carroll High School class list to see if anyone would be willing to get tested.

“It is nearly impossible for me to come to terms with what I must ask of you, and that is your help in finding a kidney donor so that I can have a chance to improve my quality of life – and perhaps even to extend it beyond the expected span of a dialysis patient,” Walker wrote, in part, to his classmates last November.

7-YEAR-OLD BOY RECOVERING AFTER 5-ORGAN TRANSPLANT SURGERY

Charlie Ball, who is living in California, was moved by the email and responded within 15 minutes of receiving it.

“It didn’t take me any time at all to say, ‘I’ll go take the tests, what’s the worst thing that could happen,’” Ball told the news site.

Ball was found to be a match and five months later, the pair underwent a successful transplant surgery at George Washington University Hospital.

“This is just a blessing beyond measure,” Walker told Fox 5 DC. “I began to have a gradually increasing sense of well-being that became a sense of euphoria, and so I started to interrogate it and realized it might be as simple as having the first pain-free day in over a year.”A seven-year-old boy is one of the youngest patients in Britain to undergo a multi-transplant operation to successfully replace five organs.

Jay Crouch received two new kidneys, a liver, a small intestine and pancreas from a single donor.

When he was just six-weeks-old, his small intestine became twisted which caused extensive damage to his major organs.

During his life, Crouch was diagnosed with anaemia, having small bowel syndrome and chronic renal failure.

As a result of his health problems, Crouch was fed using a tube, but was able to taste and swallow food for the first time following the multiple organ transplant.

Incredibly, all five organs were removed from the donor – a child of a similar age to Crouch - in a mammoth 10-hour operation last month.

CHICAGO BABY FITTED WITH WORLD'S TINIEST MECHANICAL HEART VALVE

Crouch was discharged from Birmingham Children’s Hospital on Monday after four weeks, where he was the first child in 20 years to undergo the complex procedure.

On Tuesday he was back home in Market Harborough, Leics., where he is being cared for by his family.

"It’s quite incredible really because we didn’t expect it to all go so well," Katie Freestone, Crouch's mom, said. "We knew how amazing he is and we thought he would do well but initially we were told he would be in for a much longer period, a few months, but it’s actually only been just over four weeks, so everybody’s pretty amazed at how he’s done."

"I knew he would do great, he’s a little superhuman, I knew he would do well," the 28-year-old said. "My first thought when I got the phone call to say the organs were available, it was initially of sadness for the family who have lost someone at this time.

"It's all wonderful for us but in all of it there’s quite a lot of sadness," she said. "You can't really express your gratitude enough towards them, there aren’t any words you can say. You can say thank you but that really doesn’t cover it."

"Without the organs Jay wouldn’t have survived so it’s that important," she said. "There’s nothing I could say to express my gratitude."

Crouch celebrated being able to eat food for the first time with a slice of buttered toast.

"I had some anaesthetic at first, when we first arrived, to get the whole stuff (tubes) into my body," he said. "I don’t know how they got stoma into my body."

Surgeons removed Crouch's liver, whilst the kidneys, pancreas, liver and intestine were being removed from the donor child.

The new set of organs were attached to Crouch’s aorta in his stomach, giving him bloody supply from the heart.

The blood went back to heart via the vein coming out of his liver.

The small intestine was attached to his bowel and then surgeons had to wait.

He now has four kidneys and two pancreases in his body.

“There are two connections from the vessels points of view, which is one artery giving the blood to all five organs and one vein taking the blood out of it," Khalid Sharif, Crouch's transplant surgeon, said. "There are two points to join the intestine and two points to join the juice from the new kidneys to the bladder."

"If you have to join all these tasks separately there will be two joins per each organ separately, which makes a lot of joins," Sharif said. "You need to see all the organs linking up together. If one is not doing it, that’s really heart breaking, because you do not know what is going on."Hard Rock Cafe co-founder Peter Morton is poised to sell his Malibu estate in an off-market deal for $110 million.

Morton was expected to be sealing the deal in a closing on Tuesday, selling the home to natural gas billionaire Michael S. Smith and his wife, Iris, Mansion Global has learned. The estate, consisting of a five-bedroom main house and three-bedroom guest house, will set a new record for the highest price ever paid for a home in Los Angeles County — surpassing the Playboy Mansion, which sold for $100 million in 2016.

Architect Richard Meier, whose signature white-clad contemporary mansions dot Malibu, designed the residence in teak wood and glass, according to a 2006 profile of Morton in The Los Angeles Times. Morton, 70, could not immediately be reached for comment.

The custom teak shell, which draws back like shutters to let the light into floor-to-ceiling glass — reportedly needs daily oiling to keep its warm, rich hue.

The home will smash Malibu’s record sales: a tie between David Geffen’s Carbon Beach compound and powerbroker Kurt Rappaport’s beach mansion, both of which sold for $85 million, Mansion Global previously reported.

It is believed the Malibu residence will also break a national price record in terms of price per square foot, a source said. The house — modest compared to its ultra-luxury neighbors at about 8,000 square feet — will sell for $13,750 per square foot.

By chance, Smith, CEO of Freeport LNG, paid the exact same price for a beach home on the opposite coast in 2016. He shelled out $110 million for 6.4-acre estate in East Hampton, New York.

But the off-market Malibu deal may not hold its record status for long. Los Angeles currently boasts the country’s most expensive listing, a $350 million estate owned by late billionaire Jerry Perenchio, in addition to a handful of newly built mega-mansions with nine-digit asking prices.

Agents Rayni and Branden Williams of Hilton & Hyland represented the seller.Audi will recall 1.2 million vehicles at risk of fire due to overheating coolant pumps.

The automaker discovered that the pumps can be blocked by debris in the fluid, or moisture can cause a short. Audi originally tried to address the issue with a software update, but it wasn’t effective.

The issue is linked to the company’s 2.0-liter turbocharged engine installed in the 2012 to 2015 A6, 2013 to 2017 Q5, 2013 to 2016 A4 and 2013 to 2017 A5.

The recall work will be done in two steps. The pumps will first be replaced with new ones, then replaced again with an all-new design when it becomes available later in the year.

Audi said it does not know of any real world fires related to the problem.

Notifications will be sent to affected owners no later than June 11.

With AP"Old house smell." Those three dreaded words evoke something rather frightening and repellent to most homeowners.

You know what we're talking about, right? It's that musty odor that creeps up and greets you the instant you set foot inside an older home. What is this mysterious stench, anyway? And most importantly: Is there a way to get rid of it?

To find out, we turned to science.

What causes that old home smell?

“Three things that musty old houses have in common: little ventilation, high humidity, and darkness,” says Bill Carroll Jr., an adjunct professor of chemistry at Indiana University. That makes these places the perfect petri dish for mold to flourish, which happens to be the main purveyor of that "old house smell."

That said, what you’re smelling isn't mold per se.

"What you're smelling are called MVOCs: Mold Volatile Organic Compounds," explains Carroll. "These are chemicals associated with a certain stage in the mold life cycle that are volatile enough to evaporate, but also have a strong enough inherent odor to be detected.”

The good news is that this funky smell isn't a health issue, says Carroll. It’s just annoying — and probably more than a little embarrassing — particularly if you're trying to sell your house to people who wrinkle their nose as soon as they enter your home. Luckily, though, there are ways to get rid of the funk.

How to remove old house smell: Dry the place out

“Opening up the windows and airing the place out — like your mother did when spring came — can help,” says Carroll.

If your house tends to be humid and you’re sure you don’t have any leaks, "keep your air-conditioner or a dehumidifier running," suggests Carroll.

Oh, and if you do have a leak of some kind — even if it's just a leaky faucet? “That needs to be fixed before any progress can be made,” notes Carroll. (Progress meaning “fresh-smelling house.”)

Let the sun shine in

“Light, especially sunlight with its ultraviolet component, is a good disinfectant,” Carroll notes. After all, UV is used to disinfect water in some pool systems.

Clean your couch

Sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but if that old house smell is coming from your couch, it may be more of an "old couch smell" instead. In fact, all upholstered furniture and your carpets could be culprits. “Soft stuff absorbs ambient moisture,” says Carroll, which can lead to mold growth.

If you work hard to reduce the humidity in your house, over time, the soft stuff may relinquish some of its ambient moisture as well, dry out, and start resisting mold growth. “But that takes time, because it takes a while for the moisture deep inside the furniture to migrate out,” Carroll says.

And that may not be good enough. “Worst case, all the soft stuff has to go or be professionally deep-cleaned," says Carroll. "And a good cleaning of the hard surfaces with a disinfectant doesn’t hurt either."

Deep-clean the guts of your house

“Furnaces and air ducts can have a tremendous amount of mold that can grow in them when they’re not being used,” says Leslie Reichert, cleaning expert and author of “The Joy of Green Cleaning.” Not to mention that air-conditioners can also trap mold and mildew in their filtering systems.

If you think these little tunnels are the source of the smell in your home, hire an HVAC professional, who can actually use a tiny camera to make sure all the gunk is located — and removed.

Declutter under every sink

“Nope,” you may be thinking. “I don’t have any leaks.” But if you’ve got a gazillion cleaning supplies and sponges under your kitchen sink and two gazillion beauty products, would you really know? So clean it out.

“Getting things out from under the sink lets you see if anything is dripping or molding,” says Reichert. “Also, you can check for dampness or leaking in the piping.”

Wash your walls

Walls can waft an old house smell, too. Reichert advises dissolving a half cup of borax in a bucket of hot water (32 ounces), then adding 2 cups distilled white vinegar and 16 ounces of hydrogen peroxide. Right away, wipe down your walls and let them air dry. “This will remove grease, dust, and mildew, and also remove smells that have embedded into wall surfaces or wallpaper,” Reichert says. Repeat whenever you catch a whiff of a “stale” smell.

Neutralize the air

An open container of baking soda or white vinegar, kept in an unobtrusive place (for example on top of your kitchen cupboards), can help absorb smells and clear the air. Experts also recommend FreshWave or DampRid, two all-natural substances that absorb smells and trap excess moisture in the air.

This article originally appeared on Realtor.com as "Old House Smell': What Is It, and How Do You Get Rid of It?"A jewelry company says the marketing of its new Sarah Jessica Parker collection was a complete “Failure to Launch” — and the actress is to blame, according to a Manhattan lawsuit.

Kat Florence Design Limited claims that the “Sex and the City” actress signed a $7.5 million endorsement deal with it in October 2015 that would allow the company to use her name and face to promote its “Sarah Jessica Parker D-Flawless Diamond collection.”

Under the agreement, Parker — who has already been paid about half that amount, or more than $3.5 million — would have to promote the line at events and attend the opening of a London store location of the brand, according to the federal lawsuit filed Wednesday.

But Parker was too busy promoting her HBO show “Divorce” and her perfume brand to toss on her Manolo Blahniks and attend the brand launch event, the suit says. The event was ultimately canceled because she could not attend, according to the court papers.

The brand was set to launch in the fall of 2016, but Parker — who starred as “SATC’s” fashionable Carrie Bradshaw and opposite Matthew McConaughey in the 2006 rom-com “Failure to Launch” — said she was unavailable for four months during that time period, “due to her new television show ‘Divorce,’ ” the lawsuit says.

The line was also supposed to be promoted at the 2017 Golden Globes, but Parker “inexplicably” didn’t acknowledge or take any photos with company President Kat Florence, according to the court papers.

Parker had also signed on to doing interviews to promote the line, but, “Instead of doing the interviews, [Parker] simply claimed that it would be better for [her] if she promoted her own television show instead which would then indirectly assist [Kat Florence Design] in promoting her line,” the suit states.

“[Parker] even refused to do the simplest of marketing and promotion such as follow [Kat Florence Design] on Instagram,” the court documents state.

Parker never made it to the launch of the London store despite the fact that she was in London at the same time promoting one of her fragrances, according to the lawsuit.

“The failure of [Parker] to participate during this time period has resulted in the loss of the line, the loss of the London store, the loss of goodwill and has severely damaged the reputation of [Kat Florence Designs],” the suit claims.

A rep for Parker told Page Six that the actress fulfilled her end of the bargain and is entitled to the rest of the money they agreed to under the contract.

This article originally appeared in Page Six.The suspected Golden State Killer, who was the subject of the late true-crime author Michelle McNamara's posthumously released book “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark,” has been captured.

Authorities arrested former California police officer Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, without incident on Tuesday. He was booked on murder charges Wednesday. Investigators say he’s linked for roughly 12 murders, 45 rapes and more than 120 home burglaries in the 1970s and 1980s.

McNamara, who also was the late wife of comedian Patton Oswalt, was working on her book about the case when she died suddenly in 2016. Her book was completed with the help of her husband and independent journalist and researcher Billy Jensen. It was released this past February.

Oswalt, who remarried in November 2017, said he was on a plane when he heard the news, but still took to Instagram to share his thoughts with fans. “You did it, Michelle.”

A post shared by Patton Oswalt (@balvenieboy) on Apr 25, 2018 at 6:15am PDT

Since the posting, the “A.P. Bio” actor has been retweeting friends, celebrities and well-wishers who are showing their support for his late wife, whom many credit for helping bring the infamous killer to light. However, he made it clear that his late wife was never in it for the fame - only justice.

“@MichelleMcNamara didn’t care about getting any shine on herself. She cared about the #GoldenStateKiller being behind bars and the victims getting some relief,” he wrote.

He did, however mention the praise his late wife was getting for her prolific work on the case.

“Also, the cops will NEVER and HAVE NEVER credited a writer or journalist for helping them solve a case. But every time they said #GoldenStateKiller they credited the work of #MichelleMcNamara and #’llBeGoneInTheDark,” he said.

Since the news broke, a smattering of celebrities commented on the news showing support for McNamara.Everyone's favorite doll is coming back to life in "Life-Size 2" — and the Barbie's original owner will be along for the ride.

Tyra Banks, who played Eve, a doll brought to life by magic performed by a teenage girl hoping to resurrect her late mom in the 2000 Disney Channel original movie, is going to produce the sequel which will air on Freeform.

“Everybody wants to ask you about 'Life-Size 2' and if Lindsay Lohan will be in it,” TV talk show host Steve Harvey asked Banks as she guest starred on "Steve" Wednesday.

The audience roared with applause as the cameras turned to Banks.

“Lindsay Lohan will ... be in 'Life-Size 2,' yes!” Banks exclaimed, as the crowd clapped.

Banks told Buzzfeed earlier this month she wanted Lohan to reprise the role of Casey, playing a grown up version of the doll owner. The model admitted she even "slid into" Lohan's direct messages on Twitter to float the idea.

"I was like, 'Yo, I'm producing Life-Size 2 are you down?' And she was like, 'I'm down to the down.' Like, she's so down! So, we're working on the script now and I'm telling the writer I don't want her to just have a cameo. I feel like she was just as important to Life-Size 1 as I was, so I want her to have a role, at least three or four scenes," Banks told Buzzfeed.

Banks said you can expect the movie to hit the screens in December 2018. But keep an open mind about the film, Banks advised, there will be a lot of changes.

"'Life-Size' is going to be different. So, if you were a little girl or little boy like, 'Oh my God, I love Eve. She's so cute,' and you have kids now, you might need to use a little parent discretion on whether they should be watching 'Life-Size 2' or not," Banks warned.

This time, it won't be Casey who awakens her.

"She’s magically awoken to help a young woman learn to live and love again, and along the way, Eve herself will experience the ups and downs of real life in a fun, edgy, modern Christmas movie," Freeform said in a news release obtained by Us Magazine.Country music star Kelsea Ballerini teamed up with celebrity trainer Erin Oprea, a former U.S. Marine, who trains stars like Carrie Underwood, Kacey Musgraves and Ballerini to show off some fitness moves at the inaugural “ACM Workout for a Cause: Erin Oprea Unleashed Tour” in Las Vegas two weeks ago, and raised $5000 for the Academy of Country Music’s philanthropy Lifting Lives.



Now the pair are sharing their favorite fitness secrets for getting in tip-top shape.



Fox News: Do the workouts change when you're doing it for non-celebrities versus Carrie (Underwood) or Kelsea (Ballerini) or somebody who has an on-the-road lifestyle?

Oprea: I tailor every workout to the individual clients. Everyone's workout is completely different because everyone has different levels of fitness, different needs, different desires, different injuries — I mean, everyone has something wrong. So when I do one-on-one, everything is tailored specifically to them.

But I stay mostly the same style of training for everybody and it's something that anyone can do at home, or you can take it to a gym and do it. That's the best part … I want people to be able to do the stuff that I do [and] I want them to be able to do it anywhere. My whole philosophy is the whole world is your gym. So if you're on the road you can do it, you can do it in your bus, you can do it outside your bus, you can do it in your living room, you can do it in the middle of downtown Vegas. There's no excuses.

Fox News: What are some specific workouts that your celebrity clients do ask for?

Oprea: So everyone has different areas they are really trying to focus on. Obviously I'm kind of known for legs. I mean, who doesn't want pretty legs for summertime, right? Shorts season is here, whether we want to believe it or not -- it's swimsuit time. So obviously we're always working to get pretty legs and lean down the whole body. I don't say 'we're doing all legs'!

Fox News: When you are working out with an artist like Kelsea, what music do you put on? Is it their music ever?

Oprea: You know what, [Kelsea] puts music on. It's not her singing, but she puts music on. It's just upbeat. Most everyone listens to upbeat fun music.

Fox News: Your life on the road must be so crazy. Where does working out fit in?

Ballerini: It's really taken priority kind of in the last year and a half. As I've gotten older, I have to keep up my energy all the time, and working out helps me do that and just to feel good. On tour, you're traveling and you're in airplanes and it's easy to just feel just unhealthy. So, I try to work out like 3, 4, or 5 days a week.

Me and Erin do Facetime sessions when I'm on the road and when I'm home she just kicks my butt in person.

Fox News: What are some tips that you follow for a healthy lifestyle?

Ballerini: I think you just have to listen to your body. I mean, everyone is different, but for me I can't deprive myself of stuff. I love to be like 80/20: 80 percent healthy, 20 percent eat what I want. Like, I have a glass of wine because that's what makes me happy and I enjoy that. So, I think it's just learning your body and not depriving yourself of things that you enjoy.Ever caught yourself "giving it 100 percent" or "thinking outside of the box"? If so, you might be making your co-workers cringe.

New research suggests that seven in 10 American workers are guilty of using the most cringeworthy phrases at the office — with “give it 110 percent” the leading offender.

WALMART TESTING NEW DRESS CODE FOR IN-STORE EMPLOYEES

The study, conducted by OnePoll in conjunction with a company called Jive Communications, looked at the communication behaviors of 2,000 American workers and compiled a list of the 40 most cringeworthy office phrases.

And if you have ever “hammered it out,” or “thought outside the box,” then you probably had many a co-worker roll their eyes after a conversation with you.

Ever stood at the water cooler and stumbled into a conversation between two co-workers? Then you’ve probably heard some utterly cringeworthy phrases like “let’s ballpark this” and “run this up the flagpole.”

What about “synergy”? Ranked at 13, this is a word that many people at the office can’t stand to hear.

While we’ve all gone “back to the drawing board,” 27 percent of American workers can’t help but shut down and stop listening when anyone feels the need to use such cringe-inspiring phrases at the office.

And nearly all of us have been there, whether we were the ones cringing and rolling our eyes or actually using these phrases. According to 72 percent of American workers, these annoying words and phrases are used out of habit.

12-YEAR-OLD STEALS CREDIT CARD, BOOKS HIMSELF A TRIP TO BALI

However, that doesn’t mean that there aren’t token office jokesters who use cringeworthy phrases at work to test their co-workers. In fact, 29 percent of workers use these phrases for this exact purpose, and 22 percent use them for assimilation purposes.

“We’ve all been guilty of using these phrases, whether out of habit or not," said John Pope, the senior vice president of Jive Communications. "While many of these phrases are helpful in conveying a message, I think this study will open a lot of people’s eyes. It will help many of us think twice about overusing phrases in the office, as well as the best way to communicate with or motivate those we work with.”

And even as six in 10 Americans can’t even understand some of these annoying phrases they hear, it doesn’t seem like this trend is going to be ending any time soon.

As a result, while you may not understand when someone says “blue-sky thinking” or “learning the ropes,” you might just have to get used to hearing these phrases more often than not.

“These phrases definitely aren’t going anywhere anytime soon," Pope added. "There's a reason they're so well-known and exercised within office spaces. However, overuse has diluted the meaning of many phrases. If you're constantly told to give a project '110 percent,' over time it will lose its power and effect. Our goal should be to use such jargon sparingly, and when the moment calls for it."

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

The Top 40 Most Cringeworthy Used Phrases at the Office:As General Electric weighs whether to break up the sprawling conglomerate after a year of financial woes, the former vice chairman of the 125-year-old company Bob Wright warned it would be a “fool’s errand” to do so.

Continue Reading Below

“It’s worth more whole,” Wright told FOX Business’ Stuart Varney during an interview on Wednesday. “I don’t think it makes any sense to liquidate the company.”

Instead, GE should consider doing some joint ventures and selling off certain pieces of the company and creating separate partnerships. In recent decades, the conglomerate has relinquished control of many businesses, including NBCUniversal. GE raked in nearly $125 billion in 2016 revenue, but still has more than $130 million in debt.

John Flannery, who replaced a scandal-ridden Jeff Immelt as CEO in August, indicated during a conference call several months ago that the board was considering spinning off some of the conglomerate’s assets.

“There are other issues that have got to be dealt with,” Wright said. “Flannery inherited an incredible mess.”

During GE’s annual meeting, held Wednesday near Pittsburgh, shareholders lambasted Immelt and Jack Welch, who ran the company from 1981 to 2001. Welch hand-selected Immelt -- who’s faced a great deal of blame for the company’s undoing -- as his successor.

Advertisement

Ticker Security Last Change %Chg GE GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY 14.05 -0.63 -4.29%

Shares of GE dropped to $14 on Wednesday after the credit reporting agency Moody’s Investors Service changed its ratings outlook on the company to Negative.President Donald Trump met with Apple CEO Tim Cook at the White House on Wednesday, as the tech company stands to be affected by deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China.

Continue Reading Below

The contents of the meeting were not publicly disclosed and it was closed to the press, but the president said on Twitter Wednesday that trade would be among the topics of discussion.

Sources told FOX Business on Wednesday that the meeting had been planned for about a week and was scheduled, on trade, at the request of Cook's team. The tech CEO was in D.C. on Tuesday for the state dinner, where he brought Apple's vice president of environment, policy and social initiatives Lisa Jackson. Jackson also served as EPA administrator during President Barack Obama's first term.

Apple did not immediately return FOX Business’ request for comment.

The meeting comes as tensions with China remain high amid a tit-for-tat conflict over tariffs and trade policy. Apple manufactures many of its products in China, which is also a big market for the iPhone maker. Sales in the country, however, have slowed throughout the company’s most recent fiscal years, which has caused some long-term revenue concerns among investors.

Advertisement

Last month, Trump slapped $50 billion worth of tariffs on 1,300 Chinese products, reflecting the high technology items in the U.S. that have been targeted by China as part of its “Made in China 2025” campaign. China retaliated with tariffs of equal value on more than 100 U.S. products, including some agricultural goods. Trump has threatened $100 billion more in tariffs, though no further action has been taken.

Cook has been critical of some of the administration’s policies, including the tariffs.

When asked about the topic at a forum in China last month, Cook said “countries that embrace openness, that embrace trade, that embrace diversity are the countries that do exceptionally,” according to The Wall Street Journal.

The administration has tried to downplay fears of a trade war between the world’s two largest economies. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin is headed to Beijing to negotiate on trade in a few days, the White House said on Tuesday.

Trade hasn’t been the only point of contention the Apple CEO has had with the Trump administration. Cook also came out against what some viewed as a muted reaction to the white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia in August, and against some of the administration’s immigration policies – specifically its position on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA).

Throughout recent months, Trump has lauded Cook for investing more than $350 billion back into the country after the administration implemented the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which, among other things, lowered the corporate tax rate to 21% from the previous rate of 35%.Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos’ corporate jet visited airports at or near locations being considered for its second U.S. headquarters about the time the company made announcements regarding its search.

Continue Reading Below

The billionaire’s Gulfstream G650ER was at Boston Logan International Airport just days before and after Amazon said last year that it would commence its hunt for its “HQ2,” according to the Puget Sound Business Journal, citing flight records of Bezos’ aircraft. The records do not say who was on board or what the purpose of the trip was.

Then, after the company shared its shortlist of 20 finalists earlier this year, the jet was at Reagan National Airport, near Washington, D.C. Bezos, who owns The Washington Post, also has a home in the nation’s capital.

So far this week, the aircraft has made flights to Dallas Love Field and California’s Hollywood Burbank Airport. Additional stops Bezos’ Gulfstream made this year include airports in Teterboro, New Jersey, near Newark; the Boulder airport in Colorado, near Denver; and Los Angeles International Airport.

The aircraft visiting these locations is owned by Bezos’ holding company, Poplar Glen LLC, and costs $65 million. With the ability to carry eight passengers more than 8,600 miles at a speed slightly higher than 650 miles per hour, the G650ER is an appropriate choice for zipping across the U.S. to visit other locations on Amazon’s shortlist.

Advertisement

Amazon reached out to FOX Business following our report with the following statement:

"There's no connection between Jeff’s personal and business travel, and our HQ2 search.”United Airlines CEO Oscar Munoz’s saw a big pay cut in 2017, at his request, while the company is losing its chairman and another board member as it deals with numerous PR disasters.

Continue Reading Below

Ticker Security Last Change %Chg UAL UNITED CONTINENTAL HLDG. 68.51 -0.44 -0.64%

Munoz took home $9.56 million last year, nearly half of compensation in 2016, according to a filing by the company. In an employee letter Munoz suggested that the company's compensation committee not give him a bonus.

"I felt it was important to send a message about the culture of accountability and integrity that we are building here as a United team.

"We had some incredible successes in 2017, but also some setbacks," he said.

More from FOX Business United Airlines CEO did not get a bonus last year

Advertisement

Chairman Robert Milton, a former Air Canada CEO, is stepping down and will be replaced, while director Laurence Simmons is also departing.

These changes come as the company has dealt with numerous PR disasters over the past year, including a dog dying on a flight and the dragging of a passenger off of an overbooked flight.C3 IoT, an artificial intelligence (AI) and internet of things company, is looking to transform agriculture, aircraft maintenance and manufacturing processes.

Continue Reading Below

“New breakthroughs in information technology in the area of predictive analytics should dramatically change the way people deal with customers, the way they manufacture products, the way they deliver services,” C3 IoT founder and CEO Tom Siebel said Monday during an interview with Liz Claman on FOX Business.

C3 IoT has partnered with Microsoft to deliver new technology developments and deploy AI-based applications in inventory management and healthcare.

“We can take healthcare data and genomic data and dramatically increase efficiency of basically precision medicine, lower the cost of medicine, decrease disease,” Siebel said on “Countdown to the Closing Bell.”

C3 IoT delivers a platform for big data, AI, machine learning. It is ranked as the top 100 company leading the way in AI by Forbes.

Advertisement

Chinese companies are reportedly applying for AI patents at six times the rate of U.S. businesses.

“They’re moving forward very quickly,” Siebel said. “But AI basically promises the ability to solve a class of problems that were unsolvable, generally in the area of predictive analytics.”

As the field of artificial intelligence keeps growing, the C3 IoT CEO said, the elimination of jobs, privacy issues and especially cybersecurity are areas that will require closer attention.

“As a government, as an industry, we’re not focused enough on cybersecurity,” Siebel said. “This is critically important. “If we don’t address it, we will be sorry.”Shares of U.S. aluminum company Alcoa posted on Monday their largest one-day loss in nine years after the Treasury Department extended the wind-down period for U.S. customers’ transactions with sanctioned Russian rival Rusal by six months.

U.S. persons or companies doing business with the Russian aluminum giant will now have until Oct. 16 to comply with sanctions, a deadline that has been extended from May 7. Alcoa shares plunged more than 13.5% at Monday’s close.

Continue Reading Below

Ticker Security Last Change %Chg AA ALCOA CORPORATION 51.95 +1.13 +2.22%

Rusal, one of the world’s largest aluminum producers, was designated for sanctions on April 6. The company is known for its ties with the Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, who is close with President Vladimir Putin. According to Morgan Stanley, it supplied nearly 10% of U.S. aluminum imports last year, according to Morgan Stanley, as reported by Reuters.

“Rusal has felt the impact of U.S. sanctions because of its entanglement with Oleg Deripaska, but the U.S. government is not targeting the hardworking people who depend on RUSAL and its subsidiaries,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a press release.

Mnuchin added that Rusal has petitioned the U.S. for delisting, which is being considered if Deripaska – the company’s main shareholder – gives up control. Deripaska is a central figure in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.

Rusal was designated for sanctions along with two-dozen other individuals and businesses close to the Russian government early this month.The Tennessee Waffle House where four people were fatally shot reopened Wednesday amid tears and solemn remembrance of the dead, as the company said it will donate a month of the restaurant's sales to help the wounded survivors and the families of the slain.

Employees wore orange ribbons and hugged one another while a steady stream of customers came in to order food and show support.

Among those killed when a man opened fire in the parking lot with an AR-15 rifle and stormed the restaurant early Sunday morning was an employee, Taurean Sanderlin, 29, and three customers. Four people were wounded.

Proceeds from the next 30 days of sales at the store will go to the families of the four who were killed and to the two who remain hospitalized, said Waffle House spokesman Pat Warner.

One of the employees who was working during the attack wept and knelt outside the restaurant before four white crosses bearing the pictures and names of the victims.

The woman, who still had scrapes on her face, said she could not speak.

One of those who died in the carnage was Joe Perez, a 20-year-old customer from Nashville. His parents, who traveled to Nashville from Texas, signed the cross bearing their son's name and the three others. They also did not want to speak.

Also killed were Akilah Dasilva, a 23-year-old student at Middle Tennessee State University who was well known to independent musicians and record labels in town. DeEbony Groves, a 21-year-old student at Belmont University, also died in the attack.

It was the employees who wanted to get the restaurant up and running, Warner said.

"I think it's part of the healing process for them," Warner said.

One of the first customers of the day bought about $8 worth of food but then left $100, Warner said.

A steady stream of customers came, saying they wanted to help the victims.

"I saw that they were reopening and that all incoming funds were going to the victims' families, and I was going like, 'OK. I should drop in and have something, and in some small way contribute,'" Michael Harrison said as he entered the restaurant.

Police have identified the shooting suspect as Travis Reinking, 29. He faces multiple criminal charges, including four counts of criminal homicide. A public defender listed as his attorney has not responded to an email seeking comment.

Meanwhile, an audio recording released from a computer repair shop shows that Reinking was fearful that someone had hacked his laptop.

The owner of Dang It Repair said Reinking initially took his computer to the shop because he thought someone had hacked into it. But a recorded telephone conversation between Reinking and one of the shop's employees shows he was also fearful that the company had tampered with his computer.

A man wearing nothing but a green jacket and brandishing an assault-style rifle attacked the restaurant early Sunday. Police credit restaurant patron James Shaw Jr. with disarming the gunman and averting more bloodshed.

The gunman fled and led police on a massive manhunt that lasted more than 24 hours before Reinking was captured. Police say they still do not know of a motive for the crime.

The onetime crane operator bounced between states and suffered from delusions, sometimes talking about plans to marry singer Taylor Swift, friends and relatives told authorities.

He was detained by the Secret Service in July after he ventured in to a forbidden area on the White House grounds and demanded to meet President Donald Trump.

A friend and former co-worker in Colorado, John Turley, told The Associated Press that he never saw any hints of violence or aggression from Reinking during the months they knew each other.

"I can't tell you why he did what he did," Turley said Wednesday. "The person I knew would not have done this." Turley added, "He just seemed too passive a person."

Turley said also Reinking never expressed any allegiance to anti-government beliefs, nor did he seem to be racist or advocate for white supremacy.

A Salida, Colorado, police report quotes Turley as saying Reinking believed he was a "sovereign citizen" — defined by the FBI as an anti-government extremist who believes he's not subject to federal law even though he lives in the U.S. But Turley told The Associated Press that Reinking never expressed those beliefs to him. Turley said he was only telling Salida police something he had heard about Reinking in news reports after the White House incident.White House doctor Ronny Jackson exhibited a pattern of recklessly prescribing drugs and drunken behavior, including crashing a government vehicle while intoxicated and doling out such a large supply of a prescription opioid that staffers panicked because they thought the drugs were missing, according to accusations compiled by Democratic staff on the committee considering his nomination as Veterans Affairs secretary.

The summary was based on conversations with 23 of Jackson's current and former colleagues at the White House Medical Unit. It is the latest blow to his nomination to lead the government's second-largest Cabinet agency.

In just a matter of days, the allegations have transformed Jackson's reputation as a celebrated doctor attending the president to an embattled nominee accused of drinking on the job and over-prescribing drugs. He was seen pacing back and forth on the White House grounds Wednesday.

And while the White House put on a full-scale defense of Jackson, spokesman Raj Shah said aides are "of course" preparing for the possibility that he might withdraw. "This is, as the president said, Dr. Jackson's decision," Shah said on CNN.

Jackson huddled late Wednesday evening with top White House press staff. They declined to comment on the situation.

A former colleague who spoke to The Associated Press described Jackson as a gregarious, Type A charmer who knew how to position himself for success — attentive to bosses but also causing unnecessary grief and consternation among colleagues.

He said Jackson became known as "Candyman" because of the way he handed out drugs. The ex-colleague spoke on condition of anonymity because of fear of retaliation.

The "Candyman" nickname was also cited in the summary released by the Democrats.

In a section on Jackson's prescribing practices, the summary said that in one case, missing Percocet tabs threw members of the White House Medical Unit into a panic — but it turned out he had prescribed a "large supply" of the opioid to a White House Military Office staffer.

The allegations also referred to multiple incidents of Jackson's intoxication while on duty, often on overseas trips. On at least one occasion he was nowhere to be found when his medical help was needed because "he was passed out drunk in his hotel room," according to the summary.

At a Secret Service going-away party, the summary says, Jackson got drunk and wrecked a government vehicle.

Jackson has denied allegations of bad behavior and told reporters at the White House he was "still moving ahead as planned."

"I never wrecked a car," he said. "I have no idea where that is coming from."

Reports of overprescribing and alcohol-related behavior problems can jeopardize a doctor's license. Many state medical boards allow doctors to keep their licenses and return to practice if they complete special treatment programs and submit to random urine screens.

The allegations were publicly released on the day that Jackson's confirmation hearing was to have been held. The hearing was postponed indefinitely while the allegations against him are reviewed.

"He treated the people above him very, very well. He treated the people below him very, very poorly," Sen. Jon Tester, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, told the AP. "It's not surprising the people above him think he was doing a really, really good job."

White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said Wednesday that Jackson had passed "at least four independent background checks" that found "no areas of concern."

"He has received more vetting than most nominees," she said.

Marc Short, the White House legislative director, could not say he was confident the allegations were false. He was "not familiar" with car wreck episode.

But Short also suggested Tester was airing the allegations for political gain.

"It's quite unusual for a United States senator to take allegations that have not been fully investigated, but to flaunt them to the national public to suggest he's the 'candyman' I think is outrageous," Short said.

Tester, speaking on MSNBC, acknowledged that not all the allegations had been verified.

"Am I 100% rock solid sure that he did this? No," Tester said. "But I've seen a pattern here that continues on and on and on."

Jackson met late at the Capitol with a key Republican on the Veterans Affairs Committee, Sen. Thom Tillis of North Carolina. They discussed a variety of subjects — "some were the allegations" — as well as Jackson's credentials for the job.

"It was just getting through the facts," Tillis said.

Veterans groups are dismayed over the continuing uncertainty at the VA, already beset by infighting over improvements to veterans care.

"The American Legion is very concerned about the current lack of permanent leadership," said Denise Rohan, national commander of The American Legion, the nation's largest veterans organization.

A watchdog report requested in 2012 and reviewed by the AP found that Jackson and a rival physician exhibited "unprofessional behaviors" as they engaged in a power struggle over the White House medical unit.

That report by the Navy's Medical Inspector General found a lack of trust in the leadership and low morale among staff members, who described the working environment as "being caught between parents going through a bitter divorce."

It included no references to improper prescribing of drugs or the use of alcohol, as alleged in the summary compiled by the Senate Democratic staff members.

The White House has released handwritten reports from Trump and former President Barack Obama praising Jackson's leadership and medical care and recommending him for promotion.

Trump's first VA secretary, David Shulkin, was dismissed after an ethics scandal and mounting rebellion within the agency. But Jackson has faced numerous questions from lawmakers and veterans groups about whether he has the experience to manage the department of 360,000 employees serving 9 million veterans.

___

Associated Press writers Darlene Superville, Lisa Mascaro, Catherine Lucey, Matthew Daly and Jill Colvin in Washington and AP Medical Writer Carla K. Johnson in Seattle contributed to this report.The man who authorities said Wednesday is among the worst serial killers and rapists in U.S. history is a 72-year-old Vietnam War veteran, former police officer and grandfather who lived in a tidy, suburban California home with a neatly kept green lawn.

Joseph James DeAngelo was described Wednesday as an odd but decent neighbor in the Sacramento suburb of Citrus Heights. Neighbors said he mostly kept to himself, but was quick to anger and could often be heard loudly cussing in frustration over a landscaping issue or other minor annoyance.

"You can tell he's a very meticulous person," said neighbor Kevin Tapia. "His house is always perfectly painted. His grass is always cut. He gets down around all the rocks on his lawn and is cutting to make sure it's just perfect."

Another neighbor, Natalia Bedes-Correnti, said DeAngelo appeared to be a "nice old grandpa" but he cursed loudly and often over misplaced car keys and the like. She said one of DeAngelo's adult daughters and a granddaughter lived with him in the neighborhood where children ride their bikes home from school.

"He liked the F word a lot," Bedes-Correnti said.

His history also shows a seemingly ordinary life for the man police are now linking to crimes committed by the suspect variously known as the Golden State Killer, the East Area Rapist and the Original Night Stalker. Investigators towed away two cars, a Volvo and a Toyota along with a fishing boat DeAngelo kept in his three-car garage. Neighbors also said he owned a motorcycle.

Neighbor Barbara Wammer, 73, said DeAngelo built model airplanes that can be flown by remote control in the home he owned since 1983. She described him as a typical neighbor who was often outside working on his lawn. "There was no reason to be suspicious," she said.

DeAngelo graduated from nearby Folsom High School in 1964 and joined the U.S. Navy.

A local newspaper in 1967 reported that DeAngelo served aboard the cruiser USS Canberra as a repairman off the coast of North Vietnam.

After returning home he enrolled in a nearby community college and then transferred to California State University, Sacramento, where he graduated in 1972 with a bachelor of science degree in criminal justice, school spokeswoman Anita Fitzhugh said.

Soon he landed a job as a police officer in the small Central Valley city of Exeter, 45 miles (72 kilometers) south of Fresno, where he served from 1973 to 1976, "around the time of the Visalia Ransacker cases," another name affiliated with the same attacker, Sacramento Sheriff Scott Jones said.

He married a Citrus Heights woman seven years his junior in 1973, according to a marriage notice in the Auburn Journal.

In 1976, DeAngelo took a job with the Auburn Police Department about 30 miles (48 kilometers) north of Sacramento.

"Very often serial killers are very interested in police work, they tend to have an obsession with it and they tend to study it," said Scott Bonn, a criminologist and author of "Why We Love Serial Killers" and other similar books.

The Auburn Journal in June 1979 published a photo of DeAngelo in uniform preparing for the annual "Fuzz Ball" fundraising baseball game.

A few months later the department fired him after he was caught shoplifting a hammer and dog repellent.The suspect believed to be the notorious Golden State Killer — who was wanted in a dozen murders and nearly 50 rapes from the late 1970s to the mid-1980s — was arrested in California, officials said Wednesday.

Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, was arrested early Wednesday at his Citrus Heights home, located 16 miles northeast of Sacramento, after a DNA sample matched that of the Golden State Killer, officials said at a news conference.

County records show DeAngelo is being held at the Sacramento County Main Jail and is reportedly on suicide watch.

DeAngelo has been charged with eight counts of murder in Sacramento, Orange and Ventura counties. Officials said prosecutors will seek the death penalty against the former police officer.

Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert said that DNA helped investigators identify DeAngelo and it led to the case being solved in the last six days.

"We knew we were looking for a needle in a haystack, but we also knew that needle was there," Schubert said, noting that despite thousands of tips throughout the years, DeAngelo's name hadn't been on authorities' radar until last week. "We found the needle in the haystack and it was right here in Sacramento."

Sacramento County Sheriff Scott Jones referred to the genetic material as "discarded DNA," but authorities refused to give specifics about how it was collected or matched to the suspect.

The Golden State Killer, who was arrested on suspicion of committing eight killings in Sacramento and Ventura counties, is believed to be responsible for at least 12 murders, 45 rapes and 120 home burglaries throughout California.

The cold-case killer is believed to have raped 37 people around Sacramento and Central Valley and killed two between 1976 and 1978, according to The Sacramento Bee. Officials believed he moved to the Bay Area and Southern California from there.

DeAngelo worked as an officer with the Exeter Police Department from 1973 until 1976. He was fired from the Auburn Police Department in 1979 after he was arrested for stealing a can of dog repellant and a hammer from a drug store, according to Auburn Journal articles from the time.

Jane Carson-Sandler, who is believed to have been raped by the Golden State Killer, also known as the "East Area Rapist," told South Carolina’s The Island Packet on Wednesday she was contacted by authorities about his possible arrest.

"I just found out this morning," she told the newspaper. "I'm overwhelmed with joy. I've been crying, sobbing."

Interest in the cold case was renewed following the release of the late author Michelle McNamara’s crime novel, “I’ll Be Gone In The Dark.”

McNamara’s husband, actor Patton Oswalt, and her friend, Billy Jensen, published the book after her death. It reached No. 1 on The New York Times’ best-seller list last month.

Sacramento County Sheriff Jones on Wednesday credited McNamara's book for keeping the Golden State Killer case public, but noted that "no information extracted from that book ... directly led to the apprehension" of DeAngelo.

Oswalt countered on Twitter, saying that her book "did" help the case, but said that his late wife "didn't care about getting any shine on herself. She cared about the #GoldenStateKiller being behind bars and the victims getting some relief."

The Associated Press contributed to this report.The Latest on a serial killing and rape case in California (all times local):

6:15 p.m.

A California sheriff says a former police officer accused of being a serial killer and rapist was taken by surprise when deputies swooped in and arrested him as he stepped out of his home.

Sacramento County Sheriff Matt Jones said deputies planned to arrest Joseph DeAngelo when he left his home on Tuesday rather than burst in or knock on the door of the suburban home.

Jones said DeAngelo appeared surprised that he was being arrested in decades-old crimes and appeared to briefly contemplate some sort of plan.

Jones said DeAngelo then told deputies he had a roast in the oven.

Jones said DeAngelo was taken into custody without incident.

___

5:30 p.m.

A man accused of committing serial killings and rapes in the 1970s and '80s in California has been charged with four more counts of murder.

Orange County prosecutors said Wednesday that Joseph James DeAngelo, a 72-year-old former police officer, was charged in the 1980 killings of Keith and Patrice Harrington in Dana Point.

He's also charged with raping and killing 28-year-old Manuela Witthuhn in 1981 and 18-year-old Janelle Cruz in 1986.

Police have said they believe DeAngelo is the so-called Golden State Killer who is suspected of committing at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across California.

DeAngelo was taken into custody earlier Wednesday as he left his Sacramento-area home..

___

3:50 p.m.

Comedian Patton Oswalt is crediting his late wife for her work in pursuit of the so-called Golden State Killer.

In an Instagram video on Wednesday, Oswalt says: "You did it, Michelle."

Michelle McNamara had made it her mission to find the person responsible for at least 12 murders and 50 rapes throughout California in the 1970s and 80s.

McNamara died in her sleep at the age of 46 in April 2016 before she could finish the book she was writing about the case.

Oswalt helped finish the book and it became a No. 1 New York Times best-seller.

On Wednesday, authorities said a DNA match led them to arrest Joseph James DeAngelo, a 72-year-old former police officer, as a suspect.

Police say the book had no information that "directly led to the apprehension."

___

3:40 p.m.

Neighbors say a man who authorities suspect of being a serial killer in the 1970s and '80s was prone to angry, profanity-filled outbursts if he couldn't find his keys or something else set him off.

Natalia Bedes-Correnti said Wednesday that Joseph James DeAngelo never yelled at people but would be on "his driveway yelling and screaming, looking for his keys."

Kevin Tapia, now 36, said when he was a teenager, DeAngelo falsely accused him of throwing things over their shared fence, prompting a heated exchange between DeAngelo and Tapia's father.

Tapia says DeAngelo was a "weird guy" and kept to himself.

DeAngelo has been charged with two counts of first-degree murder in the 1980 killings of a couple.

An attacker known as the Golden State Killer or East Area Rapist is accused of at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across California.

___

1:25 p.m.

California authorities say they studied the behavior of a man they suspect of being a serial killer in the 1970s and '80s and surprised him with arrest.

Sacramento County Scott Jones told reporters that Joseph James DeAngelo was taken into custody without incident Wednesday as he left his Sacramento-area home. He was a former police officer in the city of Auburn.

Jones said DeAngelo also was an officer in Exeter, in Southern California, from 1973 to 1976 "around the time of the Visalia Ransacker cases." That serial criminal was tied to burglaries and one killing.

Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert says DeAngelo's name hadn't been on authorities' radar before last week in connection with the "East Area Rapist" case.

That serial killer is tied to at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across California.

___

12:55 p.m.

A family member of a couple who were victims of a California serial killer decades ago said the arrest of a suspect has brought closure.

Bruce Harrington, whose brother and sister-in-law were killed in 1980 in Orange County, told reporters Wednesday that it's time for victims' families to grieve and "bring closure to the anguish that we all suffered for the last 40 odd years."

He cheered the work of law enforcement, who said they arrested Joseph James DeAngelo on Wednesday after DNA helped solve the case.

Prosecutors say Harrington's brother, 24-year-old Keith Harrington and his wife, 27-year-old Patrice Harrington, were killed in 1980 in their home.

DeAngelo has been charged with two counts of first-degree murder in the 1980 killings of a couple in Ventura County.

An attacker who became known as the "East Area Rapist" is accused of at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across California.

___

12:45 p.m.

California authorities say a man they suspect of being a serial killer tied to dozens of slayings and sexual assaults in the 1970s and '80s has been charged with murder.

Ventura County District Attorney Greg Totten told reporters Wednesday that his office charged Joseph James DeAngelo with two counts of first-degree murder in the 1980 killings of a couple.

Totten says prosecutors will seek the death penalty against the former police officer.

Authorities in Sacramento County also have arrested DeAngelo on suspicion of murder in the slayings of married couple Brian and Katie Maggiore in 1978.

Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert says DNA helped solve the case.

The attacker who became known as the "East Area Rapist" is accused of at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across the state.

___

12:35 p.m.

California authorities say DNA in two 1978 killings in Sacramento led to the arrest of a man suspected of being a serial killer tied to dozens of slayings and sexual assaults in the 1970s and '80s.

Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert told reporters Wednesday that the DNA helped solve the case in the last six days.

She said the "answer was always going to be in the DNA" and the connection came in the slayings of Brian and Katie Maggiore.

Authorities say a serial killer committed at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across the state. The attacker became known as the "East Area Rapist."

___

12:25 p.m.

California authorities say the arrest of a suspected California serial killer who's accused of dozens of slayings and sexual assaults in the 1970s and '80s comes after tireless work.

Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert told reporters Wednesday that dozens of people committed their professional lives to the search and spent hundreds of hours seeking "justice for these victims and their families."

Authorities say a serial killer committed at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across the state. The attacker became known as the "East Area Rapist."

___

11:30 a.m.

A law enforcement official has identified a suspected California serial killer as 72-year-old Joseph James DeAngelo, a former police officer.

The official confirmed the identity on condition of anonymity before an official news conference planned for noon Wednesday.

Sacramento County jail records show DeAngelo was arrested overnight on suspicion of two counts of murder cited in a Ventura County warrant.

The FBI says it has a team gathering evidence at a Sacramento-area home linked to DeAngelo.

Authorities say a serial killer committed at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across the state in the 1970s and 1980s.

The attacker became known as the "East Area Rapist."

__

This story has been corrected to say DeAngelo's age is 72, not 77.

__

11 a.m.

A victim of a notorious Northern California serial killer and rapist says she's overjoyed after learning that police believe they've arrested the man responsible.

Jane Carson-Sandler says she received an email Wednesday from a retired detective who worked on the case telling her they identified the man and have him in custody.

She says she's ecstatic to have closure and to know her attacker is in jail.

Carson-Sandler, who now lives near Hilton Head, South Carolina, was one of dozens of women raped by an elusive serial killer police say killed at least 12 people.

She was attacked in her Citrus Heights, California, home in 1976. She and her three-year-old son were snuggled in bed together one morning after her husband left for work when the man broke into her house.

She says she hopes she'll have the opportunity to face her attacker in person. She says she has a lot of questions for him.

__

9 a.m.

The Sacramento County District Attorney's Office plans to make a 'major announcement" in the case of an elusive serial killer they say committed at least 12 homicides, 45 rapes and dozens of burglaries across California in the 1970s and 1980s.

District Attorney's spokeswoman Shelly Orio says a news conference will be held Wednesday afternoon in Sacramento to make "a major announcement."

FBI and California officials in 2016 renewed their search for the suspect dubbed the East Area Rapist and announced a $50,000 reward for his arrest and conviction. He's linked to more than 175 crimes in all between 1976 and 1986.

A woman who was sexually assaulted by a man believed to be the East Area Rapist in 1976 and now lives in South Carolina tells The Island Packet newspaper Wednesday that she has been contacted by two detectives about an arrest.

__

This story has been corrected to say DeAngelo's age is 72, not 77.next

prev

Both protagonists at Friday's inter-Korean summit speak the same language and share the same ancestral roots and cultural background. But North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, the third generation of his family to rule in absolute power, and democratically elected South Korean President Moon Jae-in, a liberal who wants to engage the North, also lead countries that have been divided along the world's most heavily fortified border for seven decades.

A look at the two leaders meeting at the border Friday in the Koreas' third-ever summit talks since their 1945 division:

___

KIM JONG UN

Kim, 34, took power upon the death of his father, Kim Jong Il, in late 2011.

Technically, he rules in his capacity as chairman of the ruling Workers' Party and holds a slew of other prominent titles, including chairman of the State Affairs Commission and supreme commander of the North's 1.2-million-strong Korean People's Army. State media dispatches always put "respected supreme leader" before his name.

In reality, Kim rules through his blood ties with his grandfather, North Korean founder Kim Il Sung.

Some foreign experts initially wondered whether he would enjoy the same absolute power that his father had established because he had a relatively short time to prepare for leadership. His father was groomed for 20 years. But the younger Kim has quickly bolstered his grip on power by orchestrating a spate of high-profile executions, purges and dismissals, including the 2013 killing of his powerful uncle, Jang Song Thaek.

Kim Jong Un has initiated the so-called "byungjin policy," which simultaneously pursues a powerful nuclear deterrent and economic growth. He has carried out an unusually large number of weapons tests in a bid for nuclear missiles capable of reaching the U.S. mainland. Four of the North's six nuclear bomb tests happened during his rule. He's also allowed some capitalistic elements such as street markets.

Kim has apparently modeled his rule on his grandfather, adopting his hairstyle, gestures and penchant for regular public speeches. Observers say he likely intended to inspire nostalgia for an era during which North Korea was economically better off than under his father's rule, when a famine killed hundreds of thousands.

Kim, a graduate of Pyongyang's Kim Il Sung Military University, was previously schooled for several years in Switzerland. He's married to Ri Sol Ju, a former singer with the North's Unhasu Orchestra.

___

MOON JAE-IN

Moon, 65, began his single five-year term in May last year after winning a special by-election after the early ouster of his conservative predecessor, Park Geun-hye, who faced a huge political scandal.

Moon, a former human rights lawyer, previously worked as chief of staff for late liberal President Roh Moo-hyun, who held the Koreas' second summit talks with Kim Jong Il in 2007. Moon oversaw Seoul's preparations for the summit, which produced a slew of now-stalled reconciliation projects.

Before Moon's inauguration, ties between the Koreas suffered as the North furiously reacted to Park's hard-line policy on its nuclear program. The North's state media called Park a "prostitute" and "traitor."

Moon initially found little room to mend ties with North Korea as Kim's accelerated pace of weapons tests last year forced him to join U.S.-led efforts to maximize sanctions and pressure on the North.

But things changed dramatically this year, with Kim sending athletes to the Winter Olympics in the South and Moon later brokering a meeting between Kim and President Donald Trump set for May or early June.

Moon is a son of North Korean refugees who fled to South Korea aboard a U.S. ship after the 1950-53 Korean War broke out. His family resettled in South Korea's southeastern region, and Moon once waited in line as a boy to receive handouts of U.S. corn flour and milk powder.

After entering Seoul's Kyung Hee University in 1972, he became a pro-democracy student activist and was imprisoned for several months while fighting against the dictatorship of Park's father, Park Chung-hee. In 1975, Moon was conscripted into the special forces because of his dissident activities.

Moon's wife is Kim Jung-sook, who went to the same university with Moon and treated him when he was struck by tear gas during a rally in the 1970s.next

prev

Seoul says North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and South Korean President Moon-Jae-in will plant a tree together and inspect an honor guard after Kim walks across the border for the leaders' historic summit.

South Korea is releasing some details Thursday ahead of the Koreas' third-ever summit being held on the southern side of the border village of Panmunjom on Friday. The talks are expected to focus on North Korea's nuclear program.

Moon's chief of staff Im Jong-seok says Moon will meet Kim at the border, inspect the honor guard and then start formal talks. Im says the two leaders will also plant a pine tree together on the borderline, using dirt from both countries' mountains and rivers.next

prev

It may lack the punch of President Donald Trump's vow to unleash "fire and fury" and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's "nuclear button" boasts, but the stakes will be high on Friday when Kim and South Korean President Moon Jae-in sit down on the southern side of the no man's land that forms the world's most heavily armed border.

Kim may never abandon the nuclear weapons that he claims are all that stand between him and annihilation, but if the Koreas and the United States are going to begin stepping away from what, until a few months ago, looked like a real possibility of nuclear war, then Kim and Moon must lay the foundation with a successful summit of their own. The fate of a planned Trump-Kim meeting, possibly next month, is also linked to what happens Friday.

The rival Koreas' long, bitter history will provide skeptics with ample fodder to doubt that any real deal can be reached. Since a tenuous Korean War cease-fire took hold in 1953, every major initiative to settle the world's last remaining Cold War standoff has eventually stalled.

So what's the goal? What would "success" look like?

Some sort of progress on nuclear weapons, even it falls short of a "breakthrough," headlines the list, but there's also, from the North Korean perspective, the "problem" of nearly 30,000 heavily armed U.S. troops stationed in the South, and the failure to agree on a peace treaty formally ending the war, a situation that the North routinely says creates the hostility that makes its own nuclear weapons necessary.

Here is a look at how we got here, what the two sides want, and the chances that a real deal can be achieved:

___

FROM THREATS TO TALKS

Moon, a liberal who cut his political teeth as a lead architect of a previous government's "sunshine policy" of engagement with North Korea, came into office last year hoping for better ties with the North. Instead, one of the most heated North Korean weapons-testing outbursts in recent memory forced him to follow Washington in ramping up pressure on the North.

Then, in January, Kim began a charm offensive by declaring that North Korea had "achieved the goal of completing our state nuclear force" and opening the door to diplomacy. Analysts believe that North Korean technicians still have some work to do to make this a fact, but the important thing, from Moon's viewpoint, was the shift to engagement.

The Olympic Games in the South Korean mountain resort of Pyeongchang in February provided the perfect backdrop for that diplomacy to flourish. Kim sent his sister to Pyeongchang with a summit invitation for Moon, and the two Koreas marched together at the opening ceremony and formed a single women's hockey team.

During a visit by a high-level South Korean official to North Korea, Kim reportedly announced that he wouldn't need nuclear weapons if his government's security could be guaranteed and external threats were removed. He also reportedly offered to meet with Trump and stop weapons testing as the diplomacy plays out.

After learning from South Korea of Kim's offer to meet, Trump shocked the world by accepting.

___

WHERE'S THIS HAPPENING?

The short answer: Someplace where Kim won't feel entirely comfortable.

Succeed or fail, there will be some indelible images from this summit as the North Korean leader ventures out of his stronghold in Pyongyang and onto what is technically South Korean soil — the first of the three Kim family rulers to cross the border since the Korean War.

To get to the South Korean-controlled Peace House on the southern side of the Demilitarized Zone, in the border village of Panmunjom, Kim will have to cross over the border, possibly on foot, near the spot where a defecting North Korean soldier recently fled south in a hail of bullets fired by his former comrades.

Panmunjom is about 50 kilometers (30 miles) north of Seoul and the site of the signing of the armistice that ended fighting in 1953 — but not the war, which technically continues to this day. Staging the summit there gives Moon a bit of a home-field advantage, but the South Korean president seems intent on making sure Kim feels at ease, and has sequestered most of the media far away.

___

WHO WANTS WHAT?

Here's where it gets complicated.

North Korea may want to use its new nuclear muscle, and the legitimacy it believes a Trump meeting will bestow, to win a peace treaty that ends the Korean War and eventually drives U.S. forces off the Korean Peninsula. It presumably hopes that will pave the way, in time, for a unified Korea that's led by the North and is beholden to neither the United States nor China.

That's one strain of thinking for the North's long-term dream, anyway; under current circumstances it's not likely that Washington would leave, given the bloodshed that occurred the last time North Korea thought there was a vacuum of power on the peninsula in 1950 and invaded the South.

In the short term, the skeptical argument goes that if the North can dangle disarmament in a series of meetings that follows these two summits, it could win more time — and an easing of crippling sanctions — to push forward in perfecting its weapons, while also collecting aid and concessions for nuclear promises that will never be met.

Seoul, on the other hand, wants to control the process, especially after the last year, when Trump repeatedly threatened a war that would overwhelmingly kill Koreans.

"We are preparing to take the leading role in a great transition in world history — a complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, the establishment of a permanent peace and the sustainable development of relations between the South and North," Moon said recently.

___

COULD THEY GET A REAL DEAL?

It is very unlikely that Kim is ready to give up his nuclear weapons — the benchmark for any real breakthrough on the Korean Peninsula. Kim, after all, is portraying his nation as finally being able, after years of suffering, to meet the United States as a nuclear equal.

But there are other measurements of success, and proponents of engagement say you'll never know what's possible until you sit down and talk.

Already the Koreas have set up a leaders' hotline, a big deal for countries that still spend a lot of time either not talking, aside from war threats, or communicating by fax.

One possible "get" could be if North Korea offers to freeze its weapons as a first step toward denuclearization, according to Robert Manning, a former State Department official, and James Przystup, with the National Defense University's Institute for National Strategic Studies. But, they wrote, Seoul and Washington must make clear that any freeze needs to come with unfettered U.N. inspections and visible dismantling of the North's nuclear infrastructure.

Ralph Cossa, a Koreas expert and president of the Pacific Forum CSIS think tank, is skeptical of any real breakthrough. The talks with Seoul are merely "a vehicle for pressuring Washington to talk," he said in an email. "From North Korea's perspective, the U.S. meeting is the real prize. Just holding the meeting enhances Kim Jong Un's legitimacy."

Even if no grand deal emerges, simply getting Kim in front of the world's cameras on South Korean-controlled territory could prove valuable.

The recent visit by South Korea's envoys to Pyongyang that set up the Trump meeting "has already told us more about Kim than we have learned over the past six years," Siegfried Hecker, the former director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory and a frequent visitor to North Korea's nuclear facilities, said on the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists webpage.

And, he said, "it moved us at least one step away from the nuclear brink."

___

Foster Klug, the AP's bureau chief for South Korea, has covered the Koreas since 2005. Follow him on Twitter at www.twitter.com/apklugThe Toronto Raptors honored the victims the deadly van attack Monday with a moment of silence Wednesday night before Game 5 of their playoff series against the Washington Wizards/

Players from both teams held up banners with the hashtag #TORONTOSTRONG as they stood on the court during the tribute and the national anthems that followed.

The Raptors, the Wizards and the NBA will make a donation to a fund for victims and those affected by the incident.

Raptors President Masai Ujiri spoke about the attack after the Raptors practiced Tuesday.

"What we do doesn't really matter sometimes," Ujiri said. "I can't imagine what it would be like to be on that sidewalk."

Guard Kyle Lowry said he was impressed by the actions of Const. Ken Lam, who earned international acclaim for peacefully arresting of suspect Alek Minassian.

"In America he would definitely have been shot up," Lowry said. "He did an amazing job of making a judgment call. I think more people could learn from that."

Coach Dwane Casey was struck by how close the carnage occurred to his own Toronto neighborhood,

"It's not too far from up the street from where I live," Casey said.

Casey and his coaches were in the midst of a meeting Monday afternoon when assistant Rex Kalamian's phone buzzed with someone informing him of the tragedy. The coaches stopped their meeting and turned on a television to find out what had happened.

"It's very unfortunate," Casey said. "Just this weekend I was talking to people saying how safe Toronto is, how it's a melting pot and you don't have the same crime. Hopefully though, sport can offer a relief, some reprieve."

Like Casey, Ujiri said he is proud of Toronto's reputation as a safe, welcoming place.

"Everywhere I go, I brag about this city," Ujiri said. "It's the safest place in the world. It's the best city in the world and it's going to continue to be the best place and the best city in the world."

Toronto police said the 10 people killed and 14 injured in the attack were "predominantly" women, but have declined so far to discuss a motive. The 25-year-old Minassian has been charged with 10 counts of first-degree murder and 13 counts of attempted murder.The International Committee of the Red Cross has been "flooded" with about 13,000 requests in the last six months from Syrians looking for missing family members, its president said Wednesday.

Before then, Peter Maurer told a small group of journalists, the organization had gotten only "requests in the hundreds." In the first three or four years of the conflict, it received between 30 and 50 tracing requests a month, he said.

Maurer said inquiries on the missing have come from all areas of Syria, neighboring countries, Europe, the United States and the rest of the world.

With the conflict now in its eighth year, the Red Cross chief said the surge in requests is probably related to Syrians returning to "precariously stable" places in the country where there is no active combat and worrying about family members. He said the organization has also been "slightly more pro-active" on the issue of missing Syrians.

Maurer said the Red Cross has had very limited success so far in reuniting family members, with "numbers are in the tens to fifties rather than in the thousands."

"So we recognize and we want to beef up our capacities to look in much more details to these requests," he said.

Maurer said some of the missing may have died, some may be in prison and some may have fled.

The Red Cross has access to prisons, but in Syria it can only go into official detention facilities — state-run prisons, he said.

"We don't have access to security detention facilities of the army and the secret services," Maurer said. "Neither do we have access at the present moment to detention facilities of the opposition."

He said the matter of missing Syrians also links to the issue of foreigners who went to fight in Syria and Iraq with extremist groups, including the Islamic State and al-Qaida. Maurer said the Red Cross has been able to visit opposition fighters held by Kurdish forces in northern Syria and opposition fighters in Iraq as well as their families who are being held in camps.

The organization also works with governments and non-government groups on ensuring international standards in identifying bodies, he said.

"Today in Yemen and Syria and Iraq, all the authorities, government and non-government, are increasingly exposed to pressures from families to bring back their people, or to know about their respective family members," Maurer said.

The issue of missing Syrians was on the agenda of a meeting of the leaders of Russia, Turkey and Iran in the Russian Black Sea resort of Sochi in November. The three countries have teamed up to promote local cease-fires in Syria and a peace process.

In their joint statement after the summit, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan emphasized the need for all parties in the Syrian conflict to release all prisoners and hostages, hand over bodies and search for those missing to help create conditions for a lasting cease-fire and the launch of political talks.A lawyer representing two former NFL cheerleaders who have filed discrimination claims against the league reportedly proposed to settle the disputes for $1 in exchange for a meeting with Commissioner Roger Goodell.

Sara Blackwell, the lawyer representing former New Orleans Saints cheerleader Bailey Davis, and former Miami Dolphins cheerleader Kristan Ware sent the proposal to the league Tuesday asking officials to meet with four cheerleaders to come up with rules and regulations that apply to each team, The New York Times reported.

“We’re not asking them to admit fault, or to admit guilt, or even admit there is anything wrong, Blackwell told The New York Times. “But if they do want to expect that cheerleaders should have a fair working environment, as they have stated, then it doesn’t make any common sense why the answer would be no.”

The proposal would also prohibit teams from disbanding their cheerleading squads for at least five years in order to prevent retaliation from workers who speak up about discrimination, the newspaper reported.

Dozens of cheerleaders from the NFL, as well as the NBA and NHL, have come forward in recent weeks to detail the endless sexual harassment and unwanted touching by “handsy” fans – with one former NFL cheerleader going as far as to compare the gig to being an escort.

The cheerleaders said team officials were aware of the unwanted remarks and touching but did little to prevent it. Labriah Lee Hold, a former Tennessee Titans cheerleader, told The New York Times earlier this month she and her colleagues would engage fans in groups for safety.

A former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader, who asked not to be identified because she signed a non-disclosure agreement, told the Times about one instance when a Philadelphia Eagles fan told her he hoped she was raped.

The revelations came in the wake of a complaint filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission by Davis. She claimed she was fired after posting a photograph of herself on Instagram and accused the Saints of having two separate set of rules for the players and cheerleaders.

Ware filed a complaint with the Florida Commission on Human Relations claiming that she was discriminated against because of her faith and gender.

Davis and Ware appeared on ESPN together to discuss the complaints earlier this month. Ware said she was told by her former coach to keep quiet about her faith and “not talk too much about Jesus.”

Blackwell told the Times that the other two cheerleaders who could potentially join Davis and Ware in the proposed meeting has yet to be determined. Blackwell said she understood that a meeting with the league may not yield any changes. She hopes to get a response by May 4.

"We’re not asking them to admit fault, or to admit guilt, or even admit there is anything wrong." - Sara Blackwell, lawyer for ex-NFL cheerleaders

“I understand that they could meet with us, patronize us and do nothing in the end,” she said. “I understand that risk. But it’s a risk we’re willing to take to try and have real change.”

The NFL, who does not employ or operate the cheerleading squads, said in a statement that it supports fair employment practices.

"Everyone who works in the NFL, including cheerleaders, has the right to work in a positive and respectful environment that is free from any and all forms of harassment and discrimination and fully complies with state and federal laws," NFL Spokesman Brian McCarthy said. "Our office will work with our clubs in sharing best practices and employment-related processes that will support club cheerleading squads within an appropriate and supportive workplace."

Fox News’ Kathleen Joyce contributed to this report.Pete Rose reportedly earns $1 million a year -- and blows a substantial amount of it on high-stakes gambling, according to his estranged wife.

Rose, 77, earns most of his money from autograph signings and appearance fees, according to documents filed by Carol Rose and obtained by TMZ Sports.

Carol Rose reportedly made the allegations as part of a new filing in an ongoing divorce case with the Cincinnati Reds legend. Pete Rose initially filed for divorce in 2011, but proceedings have dragged out, according to TMZ Sports.

Carol Rose also alleged her husband owes money to various casinos and the IRS.

Rose was banned from baseball in 1989 after an investigation found he had bet on baseball games while he was playing for and managing the Reds.

The all-time leader in hits was inducted into the Reds Hall of Fame in 2016, according to MLB.com.The door is still open for the Seattle Seahawks to sign free-agent quarterback Colin Kaepernick, head coach Pete Carroll said Monday.

Carroll’s comments came amid reports that the Seahawks postponed Kaepernick’s trip to pre-season camp with the team after the embattled quarterback refused to say whether he would stop kneeling during the national anthem.

"We're still battling on all fronts, on all guys. We're still looking at guys and evaluating. There are still free agents we're looking at and in that the process just continues," Carroll said. "We've gone through the information gathering and we have a pretty good feel for where we are. It's ongoing. We're not done with that decision at all."

COLIN KAEPERNICK SNUBBED BY SEAHAWKS AFTER REFUSING TO STOP NATIONAL ANTHEM PROTESTS: REPORT

Seattle had been one of the few teams to show interest in Kaepernick following his protests during the national anthem beginning in the 2016 season with the San Francisco 49ers. He didn’t play in 2017.

Carroll said the reports of what happened with the workout were “blown up.”

"I think we've been working at this thing for some time now. I don't think that was really as telling as it came across," Carroll said. "We're really aware of him and he's a fine football player and there may be a place for him. We don't know that yet."

The team asked Kaepernick if he would continue his protest if he signed with an NFL team again and he was “unwilling to give that assurance to them,” ESPN reported.

The Seahawks signed Stephen Morris a day after the Kaepernick report.

The Baltimore Ravens have been the only other team to express interest in Kaepernick, but decided not to go forward. The Ravens signed quarterback Robert Griffin III earlier this offseason.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A sports anchor reportedly has been dismissed from the NBA playoffs following allegations that he stole a jacket from Warriors' director of team security, Ralph Walker, after a practice in San Antonio last week.

A video surfaced appearing to show Mike Shumann ‒ an anchor from ABC7/KGO-TV ‒ taking the director’s jacket before slipping out of AT&T Center, The Athletic reported.

The video has been viewed by The Athletic and ESPN.

Players from the Warriors are reportedly upset and refused to do interviews with the station, despite having an agreement that requires the team to provide KGO-TV with exclusive content and interviews, The Athletic reported.

Shumann, a former wide receiver with the San Francisco 49ers and longtime reporter for KGO, has since apologized to individual players from the Warriors, ESPN reported.

A spokesperson for KGO said they are “conducting a full investigation.” Fox News reached out to KGO and did not immediately receive comment.

"We are taking these allegations very seriously and conducting a full investigation. As a matter of policy, we do not comment about personnel matters," the spokesperson said in a statement to The Athletic.

Walker is a beloved member of the Warriors organization, providing security to the team both on and off the court, The San Francisco Chronicle reported.

Star point guard Stephen Curry personally thanked Walker during his 2016 MVP award speech, calling him “our eyes when we don't have them,” the paper reported.The horse named after New England Patriots star Rob Gronkowski has to bow out of the 144th running of the Kentucky Derby because of a slight infection that will keep the U.K.-based colt from traveling to the United States.

“It’s unfortunate Gronkowski the horse will not be able to race in the upcoming Kentucky Derby due to an illness. I fully support what is best for the horse. I know he will come back strong and healthy and I am excited to see him race again very soon,” the Patriots tight end, who owns a minority stake in the racehorse, tweeted Monday.

Tom Ludt, who oversees Phoenix Thoroughbreds’ international operations, says the horse spiked a fever last weekend and was treated with antibiotics.

Ludt said Monday that the owners were “beyond disappointed” to miss the May 5 race at Churchill Downs.

Gronkowski recently bought an interest in the animal and said he was excited to meet his namesake during Derby week.

The 3-year-old colt was undefeated in three races this year, including the Burradon Stakes at Newcastle on March 30, which earned him the first European slot in the Derby under Churchill Downs’ points system. He is trained by Jeremy Nosada and ridden by Jamie Spencer.

The colt is eating normally and responding to treatment, but Ludt says the owners want to put Gronkowski’s welfare first.

Ludt says Gronkowski will be given time off and return to racing at some point.

The colt was part of the first group of horses purchased by Phoenix Thoroughbreds, an investment fund formed last year by Dubai businessman Amer Abdulaziz.

Fox News previously reported Bloodstock agent Kerri Radcliffe, who made the purchase for Phoenix Thoroughbreds and gave the colt its famous name, selected the horse because it was “built like a tank” and akin to “the equine form of Gronk.”

The Associated Press contributed to this report.A 29-year-old man who was hailed a hero after he successfully disarmed a shooter who allegedly opened fire at a Tennessee Waffle House early Sunday has now raised over $95,000 for the victims’ families.

James Shaw Jr. said he created a GoFundMe page “to help the families of the victims" after suspect Travis Reinking allegedly gunned down patrons at the Antioch restaurant.

"Please take the time to donate as all of the proceeds will be given to the families. Thank you again for your generosity and blessings!” he wrote on the fundraising site.

As of Tuesday afternoon, he raised nearly $100,000 — well over the initial $15,000 goal.

“Mr. Shaw is a standup guy and I am donating to honor his effort to stay alive. He helped others by doing so,” one donor wrote.

“Hope, healing and love to you all. Thank you for all you've done, James,” another added.

Shaw, an electrician and father to a 4-year-old girl, wrestled the gun away from the suspected shooter. The gunman, who fired outside of the restaurant, took a moment to reload his gun just after he entered the Waffle House, according to The New York Times. That’s when Shaw attacked the suspect, seizing the rifle and tossing it over the restaurant's countertop. The suspected gunman then fled the scene but was later arrested in a wooded area near his home.

Four people were killed in the shooting, though there likely could have been more victims had it not been for Shaw’s heroic act.

"When I saw my window of opportunity I just took it," Shaw told Fox & Friends on Tuesday morning, adding that he initially started the fundraiser for the families of the victims who were lost in the shooting but “plans on helping out the ones who are still in the hospital," he said.

“[The money will] maybe help them with their medical bills -- hopefully they'll be alright,” he said.

Shaw said that the GoFundMe represents a “small gesture" but noted that it will not make up for the lives lost on Sunday.

“At least it’s something that will pull them toward the right way,” said Shaw.

Separately, a fundraiser has been set up for Shaw, who suffered a graze wound and a second-degree burn on his right hand from where he grabbed the barrel of the weapon.

“Since that horrific shooting, he has raised tens of thousands of dollars for the victims and shown a level of humility that has inspired many of us,” the fundraiser read, adding that the money raised could be used for his daughter's education. "But I'd be just as happy if James used some of this money to take his family on a nice vacation."

So far, people have donated more than $47,000 to support the hero.

Shaw was not immediately available for additional comment when contacted by Fox News on Tuesday.As President Donald Trump's pick to lead Veterans Affairs skids to a halt, senators from both parties are voicing frustration that the White House is skipping crucial vetting of nominees and leaving lawmakers to clean up the mess.

That sentiment was evident Tuesday on Capitol Hill after senators delayed hearings for White House physician Ronny Jackson, Trump's surprise pick to head the VA. Jackson is facing questions about improper workplace behavior, and even Trump himself acknowledged that there were concerns about his nominee's experience.

"The White House still seems to be feeling its way on the nomination process," said Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, "and does not fully appreciate how important it is to do a thorough vetting and FBI background check on nominees."

Sen. John Thune, R-S.D., said that while lawmakers want to be "deferential as much as we can" to the president's preferences for his Cabinet, "it would be nice to know some of the issues that come up after the fact before the fact."

Trump, who promised to fill his administration with the "best people," often gravitates toward advisers he has a personal connection with or who look the part, drawing on the approach he took as a business executive. But as president, the result is a growing list of Cabinet secretaries and other officials who do not appear to undergo the rigorous scrutiny typically expected for White House hires.

Andy Puzder, Trump's initial choice to lead the Labor Department, stepped aside before his confirmation hearings, in part over taxes he belatedly paid on a former housekeeper not authorized to work in the United States. Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price won confirmation, but ultimately resigned amid disclosures about his expensive travel habits.

Others are fighting similar charges, most notably Scott Pruitt, the embattled head of Environmental Protection Agency. Pruitt faces multiple allegations of improper housing, expensing and other practices, prompting several lawmakers to call for him to step down.

The Senate has increasingly become a partisan battleground for nomination fights, a war that escalated when President Barack Obama was in the White House and Senate Democrats, who had majority control, changed the rules to allow majority vote for confirming most nominees — the so-called nuclear option — to get around GOP filibusters.

Republicans returned the favor once Trump was in the White House, and they had the Senate majority, deploying the tactic to seat Neil Gorsuch on the Supreme Court.

Some GOP senators argue that Democrats are slow-walking even those Trump nominees with a solid track record, including Mike Pompeo, who got votes from 14 Democrats and one aligned independent last year during his confirmation for CIA director. Pompeo is now in line to run the State Department, but has faced stiff opposition from some of the same Democrats who backed him a year ago.

The Democratic opponents are going to "embarrass themselves," said Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas. Thune called it "really a new low."

But questions about the White House's vetting standards have no doubt given Democrats fresh ammunition to challenge Trump's Cabinet picks.

"Our Republican colleagues bemoan the pace of the nominations," said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. But he said because of the administration's "quick, sloppy vetting process," the Senate job of vetting nominees "is more important than ever before."

Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., said senators don't have to agree with a nominee's position on the issue, but the Senate has a historic role — to advise and consent — that the president's picks are up to the job.

"We're not going to allow nominees to be jammed through without proper scrutiny and debate," Murray said. "Now hopefully, the events of the last 24 hours have made it very clear why this is so important."

Asked about the adequacy of vetting process Tuesday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said that such questions are better raised with the White House.

"Look," McConnell said, "it's up to the administration to do the vetting."

___

Associated Press writers Alan Fram and Andrew Taylor in Washington contributed to this report.

___

Follow Mascaro on Twitter at https://Twitter.com/LisaMascaroA bedridden 92-year-old World War II veteran had a dying wish fulfilled thanks to a Mississippi sorority — to dance with a beautiful woman.

Navy vet Paul Sonnier was the guest of the Phi Mu Sorority at the University of Southern Mississippi in Hattiesburg at a party in his honor Monday, WDAM-TV reported.

"He'd always ask me if I wanted to go to Ropers, the local bar," the sorority’s Jessica Moreau said. “He says 'I'll teach you how to jitterbug and the waltz.'"

Moreau met Sonnier through SouthernCare Hospice Services, where she interns. During visits, he told her his final wish was to dance with a beautiful woman.

Sonnier "danced" to the music as he grasped hands with his hosts from his bed.

"It feels good to be with all these beautiful women," he told the station.

Family members said Sonnier was in the Navy during the Pearl Harbor attack and served during the war.

"What we appreciate the most is that our greatest generation member, my father, is happy that this younger generation appreciates everything that he did and sacrificed so they can sit here and have fun and have the freedoms that they have," his daughter Ida Sonnier said.Senators were discussing plans to delay the confirmation hearing for President Donald Trump's pick to be Veteran Affairs secretary over growing questions about the nominee's ability to manage the government's second-largest department.

The hearing for Ronny Jackson, Trump's White House doctor and a Navy rear admiral, was scheduled for Wednesday.

"Some Republican colleagues have told me that they think the hearing should be postponed, which certainly deserves consideration," said Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.

"I think there may well be a need for more time, in fairness to Admiral Jackson, so he and the administration have an opportunity to answer these questions fully and fairly," he said.

Blumenthal declined to discuss why more time might be needed.

White House and VA officials were quietly discussing a delay with key allies outside the administration, even as White House spokesman Hogan Gidley on Tuesday praised Jackson's nomination.

"Admiral Jackson has been on the front lines of deadly combat and saved the lives of many others in service to this country. He's served as the physician to three Presidents_Republican and Democrat_and been praised by them all," he said. "Admiral Jackson's record of strong, decisive leadership is exactly what's needed at the VA to ensure our veterans receive the benefits they deserve."

A spokeswoman for Sen. Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., the committee's chairman, did not return requests for comment.

Trump selected Jackson to head the VA last month after firing former Obama administration official David Shulkin following an ethics scandal and mounting rebellion within the agency. But Jackson, who has worked as a White House physician since 2006, has faced numerous questions from Republican and Democratic lawmakers as well as veterans groups about whether he has the experience to manage the massive department of 360,000 employees serving 9 million veterans.

Sen. Mike Rounds, R-S.D., and a committee member, said Jackson's small staff at the White House will be an issue as he prepares to lead the VA.

"We've got 360,000 people there," he said. "Are they going to manage the secretary or is the secretary going to manage the VA? That's a good question to ask, and he needs to answer it. He needs to be the leader. A lot of folks want to be led and managed."

Rounds said the committee still needs more paperwork from the White House on Jackson before the nomination can go forward.

___

AP Congressional Correspondent Lisa Mascaro and Associated Press writer Matthew Daly contributed to this report.Senators were discussing plans to delay the confirmation hearing for President Donald Trump's pick to be Veteran Affairs secretary over growing questions about the nominee's ability to manage the government's second-largest department.

The hearing for Ronny Jackson, Trump's White House doctor and a Navy rear admiral, was scheduled for Wednesday.

"Some Republican colleagues have told me that they think the hearing should be postponed, which certainly deserves consideration," said Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Conn., a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee.

"I think there may well be a need for more time, in fairness to Admiral Jackson, so he and the administration have an opportunity to answer these questions fully and fairly," he said.

Blumenthal declined to discuss why more time might be needed.

White House and VA officials were also discussing a delay with key allies outside the administration

A spokeswoman for Sen. Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., the committee's chairman, did not return requests for comment.

Trump selected Jackson to head the VA last month after firing former Obama administration official David Shulkin following an ethics scandal and mounting rebellion within the agency. But Jackson has since faced numerous questions from Republican and Democratic lawmakers as well as veterans groups about whether he has the experience to manage the massive department of 360,000 employees serving 9 million veterans.

Sen. Mike Rounds, R-S.D., and a committee member, said Jackson's small staff at the White House will be an issue as he prepares to lead the VA.

"We've got 360,000 people there," he said. "Are they going to manage the secretary or is the secretary going to manage the VA? That's a good question to ask, and he needs to answer it. He needs to be the leader. A lot of folks want to be led and managed."

Rounds said the committee still needs more paperwork from the White House on Jackson before the nomination can go forward.

___

AP Congressional Correspondent Lisa Mascaro and Associated Press writer Matthew Daly contributed to this report.article

Ford Motor Co. said Wednesday it will shed most of its North American car lineup as part of broad plan to save money and make the company more competitive in a fast-changing marketplace.

Continue Reading Below

The changes include getting rid of all cars in the region during the next four years except for the Mustang sports car and a compact Focus crossover vehicle, CEO Jim Hackett said as the company released first-quarter earnings.

The decision, which Hackett said was due to declining demand and profitability, means Ford will no longer sell the Fusion midsize car, Taurus large car, CMax hybrid compact and Fiesta subcompact in the U.S., Canada and Mexico.

Exiting most of the car business comes as the U.S. market continues a dramatic shift toward trucks and SUVs. Ford could also exit or restructure low-performing areas of its business, executives said.

The company has found another $11.5 billion in cost cuts and efficiencies, bringing the total to $25.5 billion expected by 2022, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks told reporters. Savings will come from engineering, product development, marketing, materials and manufacturing. The company previously predicted $14 billion in cuts by 2022.

One-third of Ford's belt-tightening will come by the end of 2020, Shanks said.

Advertisement

"We're starting to understand what we need to do and making clear decisions there," Hackett said.

Ford also promised to raise its operating profit margin from 5.2 percent to 8 percent by 2020, two years earlier than a previous forecast. That includes a 10 percent pretax margin in North America.

The company said its first-quarter net income rose 9 percent due largely to a lower income tax rate.

Ford made $1.74 billion from January through March, or 43 cents per share, compared with $1.59 billion, or 40 cents per share a year ago. Revenue rose 7 percent to $41.96 billion.

Earnings and revenue beat Wall Street estimates. Analysts polled by FactSet expected 41 cents per share on revenue of $36.78 billion. As usual, North America drove Ford's profits for the quarter with pretax earnings of $1.9 billion.

Pretax automotive earnings fell $443 million to $1.7 billion, mainly due to higher metals costs such as steel and aluminum.

Investors reacted favorably to the earnings. Ford stock rose nearly 3 percent in after-hours trading Wednesday to $11.40. Through the close of regular-session trading Wednesday, it has fallen about 11 percent so far this year.

The cost savings will come by optimizing digital marketing and discounts on vehicles, as well as putting multiple vehicles on five flexible global architectures in the next few years. The company currently builds vehicles on nine platforms that aren't as flexible.

Shanks said Ford is "unleashing the creativity of the teams to challenge norms, challenge conventions." Cuts and efficiencies are not done yet, he said.

Ford will cut $5 billion from capital spending from 2019 to 2022, reducing it from $34 billion to $29 billion. The company will spend less on low-performing areas such as cars. It identified Lincoln as a low-performing area but Shanks said sales are growing and the brand is not in jeopardy. More capital will be allocated to higher performing areas such as trucks and sport utilities, he said.

Lower-performing areas will be targeted for restructuring and some areas could be targeted for "disposition," Shanks said. Shanks defined disposition as a different business model, efficiency improvements, exiting or downsizing. "Whatever it takes," he said.

Shanks wouldn't say if employees would be cut but said nothing is off the table.

Executives talked about the need to further improve operations in Europe and South America.

"We'll restructure as necessary and we'll be decisive," Hackett said.

___

This story has been corrected to read that Ford will shed all but two car models over the next four years, not the next two years.Shares of U.S. aerospace giant Boeing soared more than 4% on Wednesday following strong first-quarter results that crushed analysts’ expectations and helped lift the Dow Jones Industrial Average higher after stocks tumbled in the previous trading session.

Continue Reading Below

The Chicago-based company reported earnings per share of $3.64, compared with the $2.58 per share that analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected. Boeing reported revenue of $23.38 billion versus the forecast $22.35 billion.

As a result of the positive first-quarter numbers, the company raised its full-year earnings forecast by 50 cents to $16.40 to $16.60. Boeing kept its revenue outlook at the same range of $96 billion to $98 billion.

The world’s largest airplane maker delivered 184 commercial aircraft in the first quarter of the year, and the commercial division as a whole saw revenue increase to $13.7 billion, up 5% from the same period in the prior year. A standout is its new 737 MAX family of single-isle, twin-jet aircraft. Because of the strength of the cargo market, Boeing said it will also increase the production rate of its 767 program from 2.5 to 3 per month beginning in 2020.

“Order growth was good; it just seemed like a quarter on which they hit on all cylinders,” CFRA analyst Jim Corridore told FOX Business. “The operating margin on the commercial side was much better than expected as well. Everything seemed to move in the right direction.”

Boeing’s defense, space and security division also performed well, with first-quarter revenue growing to $5.8 billion – 13% from a year ago – boosted by the C-17 transport jet, international fighters and weapons volume. While Boeing picked up a new contract for 28 F/A-18 fighter jets from Kuwait, the order backlog in the division decreased to $50 billion from $63 billion in the same period in 2017.

Advertisement

“In terms of the backlog on the defense side, that side’s a lot choppier than the commercial side, which is generally pretty smooth … defense orders come in a very irregular fashion,” Corridore said. “To see a little bit of a dip in the defense side is not really a problem.”

Boeing did have problems with its KC-46 aerial refueling aircraft, leading to cost overruns and delivery delays with the U.S. Air Force. The company signed the deal in 2011 to build 179 aircraft for $35 billion. Boeing believes it can deliver 18 tankers by the end of 2018, according to Defense News, though the military branch doesn’t see eye-to-eye with the target date.

“The KC-46 program has been a troubled program for this company for a couple of years,” Corridore said. “But it’s getting better. And certainly there’s going to be continued costs for that program, but the execution has been improved and the cost in comparison to the prior first quarter last year is much better.”

Despite being the top performing stock on the Dow Jones Industrial Average in 2017, climbing 88% over the past 12 months, Boeing shares have been volatile so far this year because of threats of a trade war with China. In response to President Donald Trump’s proposed tariffs on 1,300 Chinese goods – including aircraft parts – China, the world’s largest aerospace market, proposed its own duties targeting Boeing’s 737, but not its heavier long-haul jets. Still, Corridore doesn’t see the tariff issue as a major concern and thinks there is plenty of demand to support Boeing and its rival Airbus. “Even if every airline in China said we’re only going to buy Airbus aircraft, they can’t possibly do that,” he said. “So there’s plenty of demand to go around. China is the fastest-growing aerospace in the world, and it’s going to continue to do so, and Boeing’s going to have a place there.”

Meanwhile, Boeing remains interested in a partnership with Brazilian plane maker Embraer. According to a Brazilian newspaper citing anonymous sources familiar with the negotiations, the two companies are in “very advanced” stages of talks. Boeing Chairman and CEO Dennis Muilenberg told Reuters last month the company was “making progress” in talks with Embraer. Boeing, however, had no further comment regarding the matter on Wednesday.Payment processing giant Visa on Wednesday reported a sharp jump in its fiscal second-quarter profits from a year earlier on Wednesday, as more shoppers spent money on Visa's network across all its major markets.

Continue Reading Below

The San Francisco-based company said it earned $2.61 billion in the period ending March 30, or $1.11 a share. The company's net income rose by 26 percent when a one-time charge tied to the purchase of Visa Europe is excluded from the year-ago results.

Visa's profit beat the expectations of analysts, who forecast earnings of $1.01 a share, according to FactSet.

Spending across Visa's namesake network rose 11 percent to $2.716 trillion in the quarter. As a payment processor, Visa earns a small fee from each transaction run on its network. The total number of cards issued on Visa's network grew to 3.25 billion from 3.13 billion a year earlier.

"Visa had a terrific second quarter," CEO Alfred Kelly said in a statement. "Revenue growth was better than anticipated and many of our key business drivers accelerated compared from the first quarter."

Advertisement

Like other companies, Visa now expects to pay significantly less tax going forward due to the new tax law signed by President Donald Trump. Visa expects its effective tax rate to be 20 to 22 percent, down six percentage points from what it previously paid.Ford announced on Wednesday that it will stop selling sedans in North America, saying the Mustang and a new crossover will be the only survivors in a reduced lineup of passenger cars.

Continue Reading Below

The Dearborn-based automaker, which reported better first-quarter earnings and revenue than expected, said it will transition to a truck- and SUV-focused lineup over the next few years as a result of declining consumer demand for small cars. The segment also generates weaker profit margins for manufacturers.

The revamped Ford car portfolio in North America, the company’s largest market, will be comprised of the Mustang sports coupe and Focus Active, a crossover scheduled to launch next year. Ford’s current lineup of passenger cars includes the Fiesta, Focus, Fusion and Taurus sedans.

The company didn’t share any new details about the model lineup at its luxury brand, Lincoln.

“The key to success is focusing on where your customers are and where your strengths lie, and for Ford doubling down on trucks and SUVs could be just what the brand needs,” said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of industry analysis for Edmunds. “But this move isn’t without risk: Ford is willingly alienating its car owners and conceding market share in segments that, while declining, are still relevant to some buyers.”

Advertisement

Ford earned net income of $1.74 billion during the first quarter, up from $1.59 billion in the same period a year earlier. Per-share earnings rose three pennies to 43 cents, beating Wall Street’s estimate of 41 cents. Revenue climbed 7% to $41.96 billion, which also beat forecasts for $37.2 billion.

Ford’s bottom line benefited from a lower income tax rate. In an interview on FOX Business’ “After the Bell,” Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said Ford held its costs in check, despite an increase in commodity prices.

Ford plans to achieve $25.5 billion in cost cuts and efficiencies by 2022, an increase of $11.5 billion over its prior estimate. It also expects to boost profit margins to 8% by 2020, two years sooner than it previously expected.

Ticker Security Last Change %Chg F FORD MOTOR COMPANY 11.11 +0.15 +1.37% GM GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY 38.11 +0.18 +0.47% FCAU FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES N.V. 23.48 -0.25 -1.05%

CEO Jim Hackett, who took the reins of the automaker last year, has led an effort to improve its financial “fitness” by cutting costs and shifting resources to profitable trucks and SUVs. Ford recently said it would reallocate $7 billion in cash from cars to SUVs, which are projected to account for half of the U.S. market by 2020.

Ford shares were up 2.6% at $11.40 in after-hours trading Wednesday.Chevron, the second-largest U.S. oil company, evacuated executives from Venezuela after the country’s government arrested two workers, according to a report Wednesday.

Continue Reading Below

The arrests, part of a raid by national intelligence officers, were made in connection with a contract dispute between Chevron and state-owned oil producer PDVSA, Reuters said. The workers reportedly could face charges of treason if they don’t sign a PDVSA supply contract for furnace parts. Chevron’s staff rejected the contract due to high costs and a lack of competitive bids.

It was unclear how many employees Chevron pulled out of Venezuela. Chevron has asked employees who remain in the country to avoid facilities that are part of the joint venture with PDVSA.

The California-based company has a staff of about 30 people in Puerto la Cruz, Venezuela.

"Chevron has an executive team in place in Venezuela. Our operations continue," the company said in a statement.

Advertisement

Political and economic upheaval in Venezuela has made it difficult for U.S. businesses operating in the country. Last year, Venezuela seized a factory run by General Motors, which subsequently exited its business there. Reuters reported that Chevron currently has no plans to exit Venezuela.

This story has been updated.article

The latest on developments in financial markets (all times local):

Continue Reading Below

4 p.m.

It was a mixed finish on Wall Street as large-company stocks eked out modest gains but smaller ones ended lower after a wobbly day of trading.

Big health care, energy and retailing stocks posted gains Wednesday.

Boeing jumped 4.2 percent, helping the Dow Jones industrial average break a five-day losing streak. Exxon Mobil rose 1.5 percent after raising its dividend.

Bond yields rose again, sending the yield on the 10-year Treasury note up to 3.02 percent, its highest level since early 2014.

Advertisement

The S&P 500 index rose 4 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,639.

The Dow rose 59 points, or 0.4 percent, to 24,083. The Nasdaq composite gave up 3 points, or 0.1 percent, to 7,003.

The Russell 2000 of smaller company stocks fell 2 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,550.

___

11:45 a.m.

Major U.S. stock indexes are lower in midday trading as investors worry that growing costs for critical materials along with rising interest rates will slow down the economy.

U.S. bond yields are rising again Wednesday, setting more four-year highs, while oil prices are at three-year highs.

Goodyear Tire & Rubber fell 4.9 percent after warning of higher expenses for raw materials.

The S&P 500 index lost 8 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,626.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 103 points, or 0.4 percent, to 23,920. The Nasdaq composite gave up 15 points, or 0.2 percent, to 6,991.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 3.02 percent, the highest level since January 2014.

___

9:35 a.m.

Stocks are opening slightly lower, extending the market's losses, after several companies reported weak results or warned of higher costs.

Goodyear Tire & Rubber fell 2.9 percent early Wednesday after warning of higher expenses for raw materials.

Entergy fell 1.9 percent after reporting results that missed forecasts.

The S&P 500 index lost 11 points, or 0.4 percent, to 2,623.

The Dow Jones industrial average fell 97, or 0.4 percent, to 23,928. The Nasdaq gave up 25 points, or 0.4 percent, to 6,979.

Bond prices fell. The yield on the 10-year Treasury rose to 3.02 percent, the highest level since January 2014.A man once sworn to protect the public from crime was accused Wednesday of living a double life terrorizing suburban neighborhoods at night, becoming one of California's most feared serial killers and rapists in the 1970s and '80s before leaving a cold trail that baffled investigators for more than three decades.

Former police officer Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, was arrested at his home after DNA linked him to crimes attributed to the so-called Golden State Killer and he initially was charged with eight counts of murder and could face dozens more charges, authorities said.

The culprit also known as the East Area Rapist, among other names, is suspected of at least 12 slayings and 50 rapes in 10 counties from Northern to Southern California. The armed and masked prowler sneaked in through windows at night and surprised sleeping victims who ranged in age from 13 to 41.

When encountering a couple, he was known to tie up the man and pile dishes on his back. He threatened to kill both victims if he heard plates crash to the floor while he raped the woman. He then ransacked the house, taking souvenirs, notably coins and jewelry before fleeing on foot or bicycle.

Despite an outpouring of thousands of tips over the years, DeAngelo's name had not been on the radar of law enforcement before last week, Sacramento County District Attorney Anne Marie Schubert said.

"We knew we were looking for a needle in a haystack, but we also knew that needle was there," she said. "It was right here in Sacramento."

A break in the case and the arrest came together in "light speed" during the past six days, Schubert said, though authorities refused to reveal what led to DeAngelo.

Sacramento Sheriff Scott Jones said detectives with "dogged determination" were able to get a sample of DNA from something DeAngelo discarded, though he wouldn't say what the item was. The genetic material was not a match, but there were enough similarities for investigators to return for more and they said they were able to get a conclusive match.

After watching DeAngelo for several days, deputies took him by surprise Tuesday.

"It looked as though he might have been searching his mind to execute a particular plan he may have had," but never had time to act, Jones said.

DeAngelo was arrested on suspicion of committing double-killings in Sacramento and Ventura counties and later charged with four counts of murder in Orange County, officials said.

Ventura County District Attorney Gregory Totten said that before prosecutors decide whether to seek the death penalty, there will be a "solemn and formal death review process that typically takes many months before a decision is made."

DeAngelo, who served in the Navy, was a police officer in Exeter, in the San Joaquin Valley, from 1973 to 1976, at a time a burglar known as the Visalia Ransacker was active, Jones said.

He transferred to the force in Auburn in the Sierra foothills near where he grew up outside Sacramento. About 50 crimes, including two killings, were attributed to the East Area Rapist during the three years DeAngelo worked in Auburn, but Jones said it wasn't clear if any were committed while on duty.

DeAngelo was fired from the Auburn department in 1979 after being arrested for stealing a can of dog repellant and a hammer from a drug store, according to Auburn Journal articles from the time. He was convicted of the theft and fined $100.

Ten slayings occurred after he was fired and all took place in Southern California.

Although it's unusual for serial killers to stop, Jones said they have no reason to think DeAngelo continued to commit crimes after 1986, when the last rape and killing occurred in Orange County.

"We have no indication of any crimes with a similar or at least a close enough link to his MO and other things that he's done in the past to link him to anything from '86 on," Jones said. "We just have nothing at this point."

Jones said he always thought the rapist was alive, but might be in prison.

For the prosecutors and investigators, the arrest not only marked a significant professional achievement but also a personal one that had touched their formative years and early careers.

Alameda County District Attorney Nancy O'Malley was a college student volunteering at a rape crisis center and "sat with survivors who had been assaulted by this guy."

The wave of horrifying crimes had brought an end to a more innocent era in the Sacramento suburbs when children rode bicycles to school, played outside until dark and people didn't lock their doors, Schubert said.

"It all changed," said Schubert, who was 12 at the time. "For anyone that lived here in this community, in Sacramento, the memories are very vivid. You can ask anyone who grew up here. Everyone has a story."

Totten said he was a young law clerk in the office during the investigation into the 1980 slayings of Lyman and Charlene Smith that "struck terror in the hearts of Ventura residents."

"We had no idea this killer was connected to so many other crimes," Totten said.

In 1999, Orange County sheriff's homicide detectives were able to use DNA to link the Irvine slaying of Keith and Patrice Harrington to nine other slayings in in Orange, Ventura and Santa Barbara counties. The genetic evidence was later used to connect the same suspect to dozens of rapes in Northern California.

Harrington's brother, Bruce, helped bankroll a successful 2004 ballot initiative campaign to take DNA from all convicted felons and some arrestees.

"To the victims, sleep better tonight, he isn't coming through the window," Bruce Harrington said at the news conference announcing the arrest.

Jane Carson-Sandler was one of the first victims when she was sexually assaulted in 1976 in her home in Citrus Heights, the same community where DeAngelo was arrested at home.

She said she received an email Wednesday from a retired detective who worked on the case telling her they identified the rapist and he's in custody.

"I have just been overjoyed, ecstatic. It's an emotional roller-coaster right now," Carson-Sandler, who now lives near Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. "I feel like I'm in the middle of a dream and I'm going to wake up and it's not going to be true. It's just so nice to have closure and to know he's in jail."

FBI agents and other investigators were gathering evidence at DeAngelo's neatly kept home on Wednesday. Jones said they were looking for mementos that may have been stolen from victims.

Neighbors said DeAngelo took meticulous care of his house, which was always perfectly painted and his lawn manicured. But he was known for an explosive temper and loud cursing.

Kevin Tapia said when he was a teenager, DeAngelo falsely accused him of throwing things over their shared fence, prompting a heated exchange between DeAngelo and his father.

"No one thinks they live next door to a serial killer," Tapia said. "But at the same time I'm just like, he was a weird guy. He kept to himself. When you start to think about it you're like, I could see him doing something like that, but I would never suspect it."

___

Melley reported from Los Angeles. Associated Press Writers Jonathan J. Cooper in Citrus Heights, Sophia Bollag and Kathleen Ronayne in Sacramento, Michael Balsamo in Los Angeles, and Olga Rodriguez, Paul Elias and Juliet Williams in San Francisco and investigative researcher Randy Herschaft in New York contributed to this report.

___

This story has been corrected to show that prosecutors haven't decided whether to seek the death penalty for DeAngelo.A pit bull brought aboard a New York City subway train last week bit down on the shoe of a woman who had gotten into an argument with the dog’s owner, prompting a carload of passengers to rush to her aid, a video shows.

The video shows the animal tearing into the shoe and refusing to let go. A couple of passengers try to yank the woman’s leg from the dog’s jaw, while others scream at the animal’s owner.

A post shared by SubwayCreatures (@subwaycreatures) on Apr 24, 2018 at 7:24am PDT

“Get the dog off of her,” one rider shouts.

“Call the police,” another passenger yells.

“You’re going to jail now,” another rider yells. “And [the dog is] going to get euthanized.”

The owner eventually wrestles his dog away from the woman, taking her shoe off with it. The end of the video shows the owner picking up the shoe and throwing it toward the woman, but instead hitting another passenger who had been yelling at him.

The dog owner can be heard in the video telling the other riders that “she attacked me first.”

According to Tahsyi King, who filmed the encounter, there was a verbal and physical exchange before he began recording.

The dog had bumped a female passenger multiple times while she was already seated in the car, King told WNBC-TV. The woman asked the owner to move his dog several times and allegedly touched it, which led to an argument.

"The third time, he leans, punches her right on her face,” King told the station. “She seen it coming because she hit him back."

The incident took place on the No. 4 subway line, but the time and place remained unclear. The parties involved have not yet been identified.

The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) told WPIX-TV that the incident was “disturbing” and “a clear violation of our rules.”

“No person may bring any animal on or into any conveyance or facility unless enclosed in a container and carried in a manner which would not annoy other passengers,” MTA rules state. The rule does not apply to service dogs.

The agency said it has flagged the video for the police to investigate.Sex parties hosted in one of Colorado's nicest communities are angering neighbors who say it's time to take action.

Residents on Avery Way in Castle Rock say organized sex parties at one home are causing parking problems and noise, but they are most concerned with the sexual nature of the events and any exposure to children.

One neighbor, who declined to provide her full identity, said she received a copy of a party invitation from an anonymous person who is concerned about the events.

It shows 400 guests were invited with 87 people, including 35 couples, sending a "yes" RSVP.

"I think it is disgusting," she said.

The invitation references the "Thunderstorm Play Palace" and boasts a 7,500-square-foot dwelling with every amenity, including alcohol, food (complete with a vegetarian menu) and chocolate fountain.

The risqué invitation also advises guests to bring their own condoms and show respect for the "new furniture."

The neighbor described guests as being from all walks of life.

"Some of them are so old that they struggled walking up the stairs," the neighbor said.

She adds the attendees even brought their own festive refreshments.

"(One) had four crockpots showing up like they're going to a Bunco party or something," the neighbor said.

The invitation showed donations are taken at the door, $70 for couples and single men, and $20 for women.

The party organizer does not want to reveal his identity but said he is the victim in the controversy.

"There was significant harassment so far I've received from the neighbors," he said.

He said neighbors tried to block his driveway with trash cans and a guest's car was keyed, resulting in expensive damage.

The party organizer, who is a father and husband, said he understands his neighbors' concerns and has made efforts to conceal anything that might be offensive.

"There are no open areas you can see outside to have the children or anyone see what they don't want to see," he said.

He said he has also installed sound-proofing in the home with close attention paid to the basement windows.

Still, neighbors say they can hear disturbing sounds coming from the home — sounds they don't want their children exposed to.

"You can hear people doing what they're doing," one resident said.

The Castle Rock Police Department said it is working with the neighborhood HOA and city officials to investigate the issue, but the party organizer is not breaking the law because he is only taking donations and the events are contained to the privacy of his home.

Read more from Fox 31 Denver.