ON DECEMBER 4th, eight days after Honduras held general elections, the country’s electoral commission (TSE) indicated which candidate it will declare the winner. With 99.98% of the vote counted, the country’s conservative president, Juan Orlando Hernández, leads the one-round election with 42.98% of the vote. Salvador Nasralla, a sports broadcaster, has 41.38%. Mr Hernández’s apparent victory comes after a weird and chaotic vote-counting process. The opposition believes that is evidence of systematic fraud.

Those suspicions have thrown the country into disarray. On December 1st Mr Hernández announced a ten-day curfew, from 6pm to 6am. On the following days some of Mr Nasralla’s supporters defied the curfew; others banged pots in their homes and gated communities. Some protests have turned violent and looting has broken out. Several people have been killed and up to 40 have been injured, according to unconfirmed reports.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













The Economist has analysed the election results to assess the opposition’s claims of vote-rigging. Our findings are not conclusive, but they suggest there are reasons to worry.

On November 27th, ten hours after polls closed, the TSE released preliminary results from 57% of ballot boxes showing Mr Nasralla with a lead of five percentage points. The TSE then suspended publication of results. After publication resumed on the afternoon of November 28th, Mr Nasralla’s lead steadily narrowed. With almost all the votes tallied, Mr Hernández has an insurmountable lead of 1.6 percentage points.

If the results released by the TSE at each stage of the count were a representative sample of the country, the chance of such a shift from Mr Nasralla in early results to Mr Hernández in later ones would be close to zero. Mr Hernández has explained his luck by saying that the later ballots come from rural areas, where his National Party is stronger.

To test Mr Hernández’s theory, The Economist compared results reported from municipalities by the afternoon of November 28th with those from the same municipalities on the evening of December 3rd. Of the 298 Honduran municipalities, 288 had published partial results in the first phase. Municipalities are much smaller than Honduras’s 18 departments, and are less heterogeneous. They tend to be predominantly urban or predominantly rural.

Even controlling for that, the vote count shifted systematically from Mr Nasralla to Mr Hernández in between early and later results (see chart above). Our analysis shows that Mr Nasralla lost 3.8 points on average relative to Mr Hernández after accounting for geography.

Proving fraud through such analysis is fiendishly difficult. Statistical anomalies can have reasonable explanations. One possible objection, even though municipalities are in general more homogeneous, could be that those in which Mr Hernández outperformed have a large number of voters living in urban areas that reported early and a large number living in late-reporting rural areas.

We asked Rosemary Joyce, an anthropologist at the University of California, Berkeley who specialises in Honduras, to scour our spreadsheet to see if that was the case. She found that explanation for the vote shift implausible: municipalities in the departments of La Paz and Lempira, where Mr Hernández improved significantly between early and late counting, do not have large towns. Furthermore, in more diverse municipalities, like those that include any one of Honduras’s 20 largest cities, the shift between early and late results was roughly the same size.

Ms Joyce’s claim is supported by our analysis of census data from 2013. We looked at the split between rural and urban households in 284 municipalities as well as the proportion of houses with dirt floors, which correlates closely with the share of rural households. We found no relationship between how rural a municipality was and how sharply its vote shifted towards Mr Hernández.

Another possible objection to our analysis is that the early reports were based on vote tallies that were sent electronically to the TSE; 29% of them were not, according to monitors from the European Union. There might be some reason why electronically transmitted votes would favour Mr Nasralla. But the difference would have to be huge to account for the shift in the later count to Mr Hernández. If electronically transmitted votes favour Mr Nasralla by five percentage points, he would have to lose by over 18 percentage points to Mr Hernández among votes tabulated on paper to account for the late shift towards the president.

There are other reasons to worry about the integrity of the vote count. Before the election The Economist obtained a tape of what appears to be a training session for poll workers who belong to Mr Hernández’s National Party, in which the session’s leader instructs her audience on various fraud techniques.

The opposition claims that there is other evidence that the vote has been manipulated. In the southeastern departments of La Paz, Lempira (Mr Hernández’s home province) and Intibucá—where Mr Hernández did extraordinarily well—turnout was around 70%. That is more than 15 points higher than the national turnout rate. One possible explanation is that the National Party stuffed ballot boxes in those areas. A more innocent one is that the party’s get-out-the-vote operation is stronger there.

The opposition contends that the 43% of the vote released after the TSE’s unexplained interruption was systematically doctored. Both Mr Nasralla’s Alliance and the Liberal Party of Luis Zelaya, the third-placed candidate, could do more than they have done to prove that claim. Workers from all three major parties received certified copies of tally sheets summarising the vote count at 18,103 vote-counting “tables” across Honduras. If someone later altered the tally sheets, that should be visible in discrepancies between the sheets in parties’ possession and those published on the TSE’s website. To date, the opposition parties have not released more than a few of their tally sheets.

A decision from the TSE to confirm Mr Hernández’s re-election looks to be only a matter of time. Opposition parties have only a few days left to appeal the result before the TSE. The opposition is demanding a recount of more than 5,000 tally sheets. The election-monitoring missions in Honduras of the EU and Organisation of American States want a partial recount in the presence of Honduran and foreign observers. The country’s future remains as shrouded in darkness as its electoral process.

Dig deeperTHE lunch Theresa May had with Jean-Claude Juncker, the European Commission’s president, in Brussels on December 4th was billed as a make-or-break one. Britain’s prime minister had to concede enough ground over outstanding issues in the first phase of the Brexit negotiations, setting the terms of divorce from the European Union, to persuade Mr Juncker to recommend to EU leaders at next week’s summit that “sufficient progress” had been made to start a second phase of talks, on the future relationship. In the event, the lunch fell short of a deal, but both leaders are promising to reach agreement later in the week.

Mrs May’s manoeuvring has, however, kicked a new hornet’s nest at home. She had already upset hardline Brexiteers with concessions on the rights of EU citizens in Britain and by offering as much as £45bn-55bn ($60bn-75bn) to settle Britain’s exit bill, the two other parts of the divorce. But it was the third issue, avoiding a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic after Brexit, which was the most difficult. Although London has argued that this can be settled only in the context of a future trade relationship, the Dublin government, supported by the other 26 EU countries, insists that it needs written guarantees before it will agree to move to phase two.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Faced with the risk of failure at the EU summit, Mrs May is slowly giving more ground. A plan to promise to maintain “continued regulatory alignment” where that is necessary to avoid a border was promptly leaked. This term is vaguer than the original form or words, which was “no regulatory divergence”, and both are still some way short of keeping Northern Ireland in the EU’s single market and customs union. But many interpret all such wording as meaning that, for most goods and services, Northern Ireland will stay subject to the same broad regulations as the EU, even if the rest of the United Kingdom diverges from them.

Such an arrangement might well avert a hard border in Ireland. But it raises instead the prospect of a border in the Irish Sea, between Northern Ireland and mainland Britain. If, for instance, Britain were to adopt different rules on food safety in future, some controls would be needed to stop food moving unchecked between the two. Unionists in Northern Ireland would bridle at that. Indeed, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), whose support Mrs May needs for her parliamentary majority in Westminster, announced even before the Brussels lunch was over that it would not accept any deal that treats Northern Ireland differently from the rest of the United Kingdom.

Yet it seems likely that by the end of the week Mrs May will propose just that, because it is impossible to resolve the Irish border issue without close regulatory alignment. The prime minister may calculate that the DUP will not bring down her government over the issue, because (like her own backbenchers) its MPs fear a government led by Labour’s Jeremy Corbyn even more than a post-Brexit border. But her negotiations on the matter have stirred up others as well. Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland, and Sadiq Khan, the mayor of London, were both quick to demand that their anti-Brexit voters should benefit from similar treatment to Northern Irish ones. Mrs May could find that placating Dublin over the Irish border creates problems elsewhere in the United Kingdom.WHAT are Republican lawmakers in politics to achieve? Not many years ago, at the peak of their outrage over Barack Obama’s economic stimulus package, “balanced budgets” might have featured in the answer. But the frenzied passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act through Congress has revealed the insincerity of the party’s fiscal moralising. Republicans in Congress do not oppose government borrowing when it suits them. Rather, the overarching policy objective that unifies them is cutting taxes—and damn the fiscal consequences. Following the passage of the tax bill through the Senate in the early hours of December 2nd, Republicans are on the brink of achieving their goal.

On November 30th budget scorekeepers unveiled a forecast for how much extra economic growth the tax bill might spark: enough to pay for about one third of its $1.5trn cost. Previously, Republicans might have viewed this projection as a triumph. They have long pressed for budget forecasts to include such “dynamic” effects (see blog). But the score briefly seemed to imperil the bill. It undermined the absurd claim, made by the Republican leadership and the Trump administration, that tax cuts would pay for themselves in full. No serious economist ever thought this credible. Yet the official score seemed to blow Republicans’ cover. Senators Bob Corker of Tennessee, Jeff Flake of Arizona and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, briefly looked at if they might vote with Democrats to send the bill back to committee.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Following a huddle on the Senate floor, however, the three holdouts relented. And by the next day it was clear that there was no real appetite to rethink the bill. In the end, only Senator Corker joined Democrats in voting against it. He had wanted the bill to contain “triggers”, automatic tax rises that would kick in if deficits ballooned. But the Senate parliamentarian, the adjudicator of the chamber’s rules, ruled them impermissible under the budget process Republicans were using to pass the bill without any support from Democrats. With triggers off the table, the Republican leadership chose to pass the bill without Mr Corker, rather than find other ways to win his support. “I am not able to cast aside my fiscal concerns”, he said. (Earlier in the week, Mr Corker had held a pivotal vote on the Senate Budget Committee, but voted to move the bill to the Senate floor.)

The bill the Senate has passed differs from that passed in the House. Following pressure from Senator Susan Collins of Maine, it would not abolish the estate (inheritance) tax, instead doubling the exemption from $5.6m to $11.2m. (Ms Collins also claims to have won agreement to later pass measures to stabilise Obamacare’s troubled health insurance markets.) It has more generous treatment for so-called “pass-through” firms. Its proposed tax rates and tax brackets are slightly different. Many small amendments were made late on December 1st, hours before the chamber voted; pictures of hand-written amendments, scrawled in the margins of the bill, circulated on social media.

The deadline Republicans are racing towards is self-imposed: they want to get a tax bill on President Donald Trump’s desk by Christmas. To that end, one of two things could now happen. The House of Representatives could pass the Senate’s bill as it is, sending it straight to the president’s desk. Alternatively, the two chambers might negotiate to reconcile their proposals, before each votes again on the final bill. The hurried parliamentary process is another way in which Republicans have changed their tune once in power: they frequently criticised Democrats for supposedly rushing Obamacare through Congress without adequate scrutiny. Republicans are unmoved. “You complain about process when you’re losing”, said Mitch McConnell, the Senate leader.

President Trump will soon celebrate the first major legislative victory of his presidency. And Republicans will exult in achieving their long-held aim of slashing America’s business taxes (while also providing temporary personal income-tax cuts). Yet as a piece of economic policy, tax cuts are ill-timed: they will stimulate the economy at a time when unemployment is low and the Federal Reserve is already raising interest rates to try to avoid inflation. Tax cuts will probably cause the Fed to speed up that process slightly.

The incremental effect of the tax bill on public debt is small. On current forecasts, by 2027 a trillion dollars will add about 3-4 percentage points to America’s debt-to-GDP ratio, currently predicted to be 91% in that year. But this is a move in the wrong direction. America faces a huge long-term fiscal challenge, driven by rapidly growing spending on Social Security (public pensions) and Medicare, health insurance for the old. Eventually, higher public debt is likely to crimp economic growth, by absorbing savings that could otherwise flow to productive private-sector investments.

One reason economists suppose that politicians find deficits enticing is that public debt hamstrings their successors (that is, their opponents). Over the next decade, politicians will face pressure to renew the temporary provisions of the tax bill at exactly the time they must confront a gaping fiscal shortfall. The effect will almost certainly be to tilt any negotiations away from tax increases and towards spending cuts. Republicans—though perhaps not Mr Trump—sincerely hope to shrink entitlement spending. But it is better to force Democrats to help. Growing the deficit shifts political, as well as economic, costs into the future. Republicans have shown that, when push comes to shove, this is as enticing a prospect for them as it is for anyone else.LAST week reports emerged that lawyers for Michael Flynn, Donald Trump’s former national-security advisor, had stopped speaking to Mr Trump’s legal team—hinting that Mr Flynn was negotiating a deal with Robert Mueller’s team of special prosecutors. On the morning of December 1st the other shoe dropped: in a federal court in Washington, DC Mr Flynn pleaded guilty to one count of making false statements to FBI agents; the crime carries a maximum penalty of five years imprisonment. He was, he said, co-operating with the investigation, a decision he had taken, “in the best interests of my family and of our country.”

Mr Flynn lasted just 24 days as national-security advisor; he resigned after admitting that he lied to White House officials about conversations with Russia’s ambassador. He joined Mr Trump’s campaign early, enthusiastically leading crowds to chant “Lock her up!” (referring to his opponent, Hillary Clinton) on the campaign trail, even as he was engaging in lobbying work for Turkish interests, apparently without the White House’s knowledge.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Mr Flynn amassed a stellar reputation as an intelligence agent, when he had a defined mission to carry out. As head of the Defence Intelligence Agency, a position to which Barack Obama appointed him in 2012 and from which he was fired in 2014, he was reportedly abusive, erratic and prone to say things that were not true (his staff called them “Flynn facts”).

Mr Flynn also received $65,000 from three Russian firms, including RT, a television network, in connection with a speech-making trip he took to Moscow in 2015. He failed to disclose the trip or income on his security-clearance forms; the payment also violated rules against retired military personnel receiving money from foreign governments without permission.

He is the fourth—and most senior—figure from the Trump campaign to be charged. George Papadopoulos, a foreign-policy advisor to the campaign, pleaded guilty to the same charge Mr Flynn faces, while Paul Manafort and Rick Gates, Mr Trump’s former campaign manager and his business associate, remain under house arrest, charged with money laundering and failing to register as foreign agents.

But unlike Messrs Manafort and Gates, who were charged with crimes predating their involvement with the campaign, Mr Flynn committed the crime to which he pleaded guilty while working in the White House. On January 24th, just four days after Mr Trump took office, Mr Flynn told investigators that he did not ask Russia’s ambassador, one month earlier, to refrain from responding to recently imposed sanctions. In fact, he had called the ambassador in December after talking with unnamed “Presidential transition team officials”—before Mr Trump became president. He also lied about discussing a United Nations vote with the ambassador. Mr Flynn shared with Mr Trump an obsession with Islam, with which he seemed to believe America is locked in a massive civilisational conflict. This drew him to Mr Trump’s campaign, and afterward to Russia, which he saw as an ally in that fight. But Mr Trump was not yet in office when Mr Flynn had these conversations; he was, in effect, undermining his own government’s foreign policy, which the Logan Act forbids.

Mr Mueller’s team reportedly had been looking into a variety of allegations surrounding Mr Flynn, including failing to register as a foreign agent and a supposed plot to forcibly remove a Turkish national living in Pennsylvania and send him back to Turkey. The single-count perjury indictment, a much lighter charge than Mr Flynn might have expected, seems to suggest that he has agreed to provide information to Mr Mueller. The plea presumably leaves Mr Mueller with ample leverage if Mr Flynn’s co-operation stalls: he can always bring more charges, perhaps in concert with a state attorney-general, which would put Mr Flynn beyond Mr Trump’s pardon power (the president can only pardon federal crimes).

That should make Mr Trump nervous. Yesterday, the New York Times reported that Mr Trump had been trying to get Republican senators to end the Senate Intelligence Committee’s investigation into alleged Russian meddling in the 2016 election. And earlier this year Mr Trump fired James Comey as FBI director after trying to pressure him to “let go” of his investigation into Mr Flynn. Now Mr Flynn, whom Mr Trump repeatedly defended, is a felon, and the investigation—far from being wound down by year’s end, as Mr Trump hoped—looks set to continue.

Correction (December 4th, 2017): This piece has been amended to remove a reference to an erroneous report from ABC news.THEY have been at this a long time. In 1994 Republicans, newly in charge of Congress, held hearings on what would come to be called “dynamic scoring”. Bills, they said, should be evaluated using the predictive power of macroeconomic models. If the model predicts more GDP growth, then it could be inferred that the growth would produce more tax revenue. During the hearings, however, came an awkward moment. Alan Greenspan, then in charge of the Federal Reserve, told Congress that macroeconomic models were “deficient”. That is, their predictive power, though interesting, was not good enough to rely on. Last year, after the election of Donald Trump, your blogger contacted Mr Greenspan to see whether the models were good enough yet. Mr Greenspan, his office responded, had not yet changed his opinion.

Neither have Republicans. Over the past two decades, in and out of control of Congress, the party has nudged dynamic scoring successively closer to the official policy process until we arrived, yesterday evening, at as dramatic a moment as macroeconomic analysis ever gets. The Joint Committee on Taxation, the nonpartisan Congressional body responsible for evaluating tax proposals, hurried its study (PDF) out on a Thursday afternoon as the Senate was preparing to approve a tax cut. That cut, using the dynamic scoring method Republicans had championed since the age of Newt Gingrich, would still cost $1trn.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













As of Friday morning, the future of that tax bill remained uncertain. It is now up to American conservatives to decide whether their economic policies are social science or market magic.

Lurk near PhD economists online or at conferences, and you will hear them talk about “crisis in macro”. They mean that the models and assumptions most dominant among macroeconomists have failed repeatedly since 2007 to predict or even describe what’s happening. A defence, popular among academics, goes like this: we did get it wrong, but as responsible social scientists, we’re busy and fascinated right now, trying to figure out what was broken and how to fix it. It is a fair defence. In particular young macroeconomists have been using bigger datasets and faster computers to more accurately predict human behaviour. Economists are more likely to accept now, for example, that people with and without access to credit or wealth react differently to the same policy, an idea that is slowly working its way into models at central banks and even at the Joint Committee on Taxation.

This progress is unfortunate for Republicans. In the 1990s social science was on their side. Because data and computing power were harder to come by, macroeconomic models relied on thought experiments. The seminal model showing the ideal capital-gains tax rate as zero, for example, dates to 1986. It assumes that the economy consists of only one person. Also, she is immortal. The Wonder Woman economy, if you will. That model is now interesting only for a lecture on the history of economic thought. We’ve moved on, macroeconomists protest. But economists have. And Republicans haven’t.

It’s still worth asking whether a country should rely on macroeconomic models at all. It’s not completely clear how well they work. To strap yourself into one for predictions ten years in the future is a little like climbing into an experimental airplane. Perhaps fine for a test pilot without a family, but you wouldn’t recommend it for 300 commercial passengers. Or, in this case, 330m citizens.

But if you are going to insist on modeling the future and then planning around it, you have to do it right. The economists at the Joint Committee on Taxation are thoughtful. They read the most recent research. They examine their own models and, when they can, update them—conservatively. If, as Republicans have been insisting for 20 years, we have to assess our tax policies with dynamic scoring, there is no better way to do it than through the JCT. Unfortunately, as modeling has improved, it has not improved in the direction Republicans prefer, which leaves them where they are now. They wanted social science in policy-making, and they got it, in the form of a $1trn tax bill.

So when this bill comes to a vote in the full Senate, we’ll have an answer. If it becomes law, we’ll know that dynamic scoring was never about economics. It was about tax cuts. There’s a huge difference. It is the difference between social science and magic.IN FEBRUARY 2016 Bolivia’s left-wing president, Evo Morales, asked voters through a referendum whether he should be allowed to run for a fourth term in office in 2019. They said no. But on November 28th this year the country’s constitutional court gave him what the voters would not, ruling that a clause in the constitution limiting presidents (and other directly elected officials) to two terms can be ignored. (He had argued successfully that his first term, under an earlier constitution, didn’t count.)

Mr Morales, who has been president since 2006, solemnly declared that the decision “guarantees democratic continuity”, forgetting that too much continuity subverts democracy. The term limit was part of a constitution adopted in 2009 at Mr Morales’s behest. As Bolivia’s first president of indigenous origin, he wanted to re-found the country as a “plurinational” state and expand the role of indigenous groups and civil-society organisations. An elected constituent assembly drafted the constitution in 2007-08; 61% of voters approved it in a referendum.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Now Mr Morales’s party, the Movement to Socialism (MAS), argues that term limits violate office-holders’ human rights. It bases this claim on the American Convention on Human Rights, which obliges countries that have signed it (including Bolivia) to protect people’s “essential rights”. Re-election is one of those rights, the MAS argued. The constitutional court agreed.

Most constitutional experts think this is piffle. Term limits prevent abuses of power, which infringe on ordinary citizens’ rights, they point out. Some other signatories have term limits, for example Mexico. Although some successful democracies permit office holders to run for re-election over and over, most of those have effective checks on executive power, such as an independent judiciary. Bolivia does not. Opposition politicians heaped abuse on the court’s judgment. “It makes Bolivia a country subservient to the whim of President Morales and where the rule of law is flouted,” tweeted Carlos Mesa, a former president, who is the most popular leader of Bolivia’s feeble opposition.

Mr Morales is following the example of other leaders with autocratic tendencies. Daniel Ortega, who governs Nicaragua without effective opposition, has arranged to run repeatedly for re-election. Honduras’s conservative president, Juan Orlando Hernández, was the beneficiary of a ruling by his country’s supreme court based on reasoning similar to that used by Bolivia’s. As The Economist went to press, Honduras’s electoral tribunal was counting votes in an election held on November 26th.

Mr Morales has professed admiration for long-ruling autocrats, such as Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez and Russia’s Vladimir Putin. In November Mr Morales gave Bolivia’s highest honour to Teodoro Obiang, who has ruled Equatorial Guinea tyrannically for 38 years. Mr Morales jokingly asked him for tips on how to win elections with 90% of the vote. Although Bolivians do not want Mr Morales to run again, he is the MAS’s only credible leader and the opposition is weak and divided. He could give Mr Obiang a run for his money.WINDY cattle have always had an impact on their environment. But in New Zealand, where pastures that once grazed sheep have been converted into dairy farms to feed China’s appetite for milk, the situation is particularly noxious. Bovine burps (for these are the main problem) have contributed to a 23% rise in Kiwi greenhouse-gas emissions since 1990. Agriculture accounts for almost half of total emissions, a far higher share than in other rich countries. Consultants reckon that New Zealand needs to cut livestock numbers in order to meet its target of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 30% below 2005 levels by 2030. But gas is not the only problematic excretion. A second, less familiar environmental worry has emerged in a country that stakes its reputation on its purity. The bodily waste of the 6.6m dairy cattle sullies rivers and groundwater. Almost two-thirds of the country’s waterways are now unsafe for swimming.

Cows pollute water in a couple of ways. Their nitrogen-rich urine leaches off soil into waterways, where it acts like a fertiliser. Together with phosphorus, which is carried into rivers in soil particles, it can cause slime and toxic algae to grow. Half of monitored river sites in New Zealand are filled with enough nitrogen to trigger algal blooms, according to the OECD, a club of mostly rich nations. Toxic algae has killed at least 70 dogs since 2006. Across the intensively farmed Canterbury plains, pregnant women are advised to test their water for nitrates to avoid blue-baby syndrome, an ailment which can suffocate infants. But it is ecosystems that are most at risk. Too much nitrogen is toxic to fish, and excessive growth of algae depletes the oxygen in the water. Ecologists blame these pollutants in part for putting almost three-quarters of native fish under threat.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Further damage comes from manure, which carries nasty bacteria such as E.coli. Cows have an unfortunate fondness for wading, which means that their faeces are often deposited in water. New Zealanders are twice as likely as Britons to fall sick from campylobacter, another bug harboured in their dung, and are three times more vulnerable than Australians. Doctors say there are relatively high incidents of gastroenteritis in Canterbury, a region of New Zealand­’s South Island with lots of cows and untreated water.

This frustrates New Zealanders. Some worry about the impacts on tourism, the only export industry that is more important than dairy farming. Over 3m people visit New Zealand annually, expecting it to be, as the tourism campaign promises, “100% Pure”. They might turn away if pollution worsens. Farmers have responded by fencing off rivers to prevent cows from wading in, and planting trees to curb soil erosion. Regional councils, at least in theory, are required to set limits for water quality to ensure that it does not diminish further. This year, a plan was hatched to make 90% of rivers safe for swimming by 2040. Yet many environmentalists were disappointed by the high level of the government-imposed guidelines for nitrates in water, which made rivers look safer than many believe them to be. As with emissions, ecologists argue that it is impossible to clean up water without first cutting the national herd. Even the new Labour government’s agriculture minister admits that the nation may have got close to the “maximum number of cows”.ARGENTINES have given up hope of finding alive the 44 crew aboard the ARA San Juan, the most modern of the navy’s three submarines, which disappeared on November 15th. On November 23rd the navy said an explosion had been detected in the area where the submarine is thought to have been.

The apparent tragedy has started a debate about the role of Argentina’s 105,000-strong armed forces and the money spent on them. Since the end of the military dictatorship in 1983, a year after Argentina’s failed attempt to wrest the Falkland Islands from Britain by force, successive governments have reduced military spending. It has dropped from 3.5% of GDP in 1978 to less than 1% last year. Argentina spends a lower share of GDP than any of its neighbours on its armed forces (see chart).

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Little of the money goes towards arms and equipment. The defence ministry spends about 70% of its budget on salaries and pensions (about a third of the United States’ defence spending is on personnel). Argentina compounds stinginess with inefficiency: the army, navy and air force run separate bases in Antarctica.

Austerity has often caused embarrassment. In 2013 the destroyer Santísima Trinidad keeled over in harbour; the navy took three years to refloat her. In 2014 the submarine fleet spent just 19 hours under water. In 2015 Mirage fighter jets could not fly on cloudy days because of problems with their instruments. Next year, when Argentina will host the G20 summit, the government may rent fighter jets from Brazil.

Argentines speculate that corner-cutting or corruption contributed to the loss of the San Juan. The navy insists she was in “perfect condition” when she set out, but there is evidence to the contrary. In 2011, after an overhaul, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who was then president, declared the submarine fit for “another 30 years’ service”. But an investigation by the defence ministry, reported on November 26th this year by La Nación, a newspaper, suggests that the bidding process for the contract to replace batteries contained “irregularities” to favour certain suppliers.

Argentines now think that the armed forces need reform, but they do not agree on what form it should take. First, the country needs to decide what its foreign-policy goals are, argues Santiago Rivas of IHS Jane’s, a defence consultancy.

Argentina’s cold-war-era weaponry is designed to counter conventional threats that no longer exist. Despite sabre-rattling, Ms Fernández pursued its claim to the Falkland Islands through diplomacy. Argentina is on good terms with its neighbours. In 1985 Raúl Alfonsín, then Argentina’s president, concluded a “treaty of peace and friendship” with Chile, ending a long-running border dispute. The risk of conflict with Brazil was reduced by the creation of Mercosur, a regional trade bloc, in 1991.

Most defence experts agree that Argentina, the world’s eighth-largest country by area, needs fighter jets, ships and submarines to deter potential enemies. Some say the armed forces should also deal with drug-trafficking, terrorism and illegal fishing. That would require a change in the law. In 2006 Néstor Kirchner, Ms Fernández’s husband and predecessor, decreed that the armed forces could only confront “external aggressions”. The aim was to prevent another coup. The current president, Mauricio Macri, argues the rule is too restrictive.

Expanding the armed forces’ role might require spending more than the government can afford. It is trying to cut the budget deficit, which was 4.6% of GDP last year before debt-service payments. The search for the San Juan goes on. The hunt for a military strategy and armed forces to match it will take longer.BUZZFEED recently broke an explosive story about Russia’s meddling in America’s elections. On August 3rd 2016, it reported, just as the presidential race was entering its final phase, the Russian foreign ministry wired nearly $30,000 through a Kremlin-backed bank to its embassy in Washington, DC, with a remarkable description attached: “To finance election campaign of 2016”. Worse still, this was only one of 60 transfers that were being scrutinised by the FBI. Similar transfers were made to other countries. The story created a buzz, but not of the kind its authors hoped for. “Idiots. The Russian election of 2016, not the US one, you exceptionalist morons,” tweeted a prominent Russian journalist, pointing out that Russia too held parliamentary elections in 2016 and that the money was most probably sent to the embassies to organise the polling for expatriates. This was confirmed by the Russian foreign ministry. BuzzFeed updated its story, but did not take it down.

The author of that tweet was not a Kremlin agent but Leonid Bershidsky, a sharp-tongued writer for Bloomberg News and co-founder of Vedomosti, Russia’s leading business newspaper. “The Trump-Russia story is becoming surreal,” he wrote in a follow-up column while also offering a disclaimer: “I grew up and lived most of my life in Moscow. My perspective is that of a guy from Russia, who hates the current government there but loves the country itself.” For Russian liberals, the spectacle of American commentators imitating the Kremlin, which has long blamed every problem on America, is dispiriting.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Such people have no illusions about the Kremlin, and most of them have been on the receiving end of its disinformation and repression. Leonid Volkov, the campaign manager for Russia’s foremost opposition politician, Alexei Navalny, who—like his boss—has been in jail more than once, wrote recently, only half in jest: “I can’t be silent any longer…I understand that American society and the liberal media, stuck somewhere between denial and anger, still cannot reflect upon and accept Hillary Clinton’s defeat in the election a year ago. But the investigation of Russian intervention is not just a disgrace, it’s a collective eclipse of reason, it’s lunacy.”

Russians who think like Mr Volkov have long looked to America as the model of how a free press should be. For them, it is maddening to watch the news organisations they so admire building Mr Putin into an all-powerful Bond villain, thereby elevating his stature among the many Russians who credit him with making Russia a geopolitical player again. “If they fear us, they respect us,” runs a Russian saying. The aim of Mr Navalny’s campaign, by contrast, is to show that the king is naked, not to dress him up in armour.

Active measures

In September Morgan Freeman recorded a video promoting the launch of a non-profit organisation called the Committee to Investigate Russia. The Academy award-winning actor spoke in a deep, deliberate tone as alarming music played in the background: “We have been attacked. We are at war.” The committee includes actors and former spooks, including James Clapper, a former director of National Intelligence, and Leon Panetta, a former director of the CIA and White House chief of staff. “Imagine this movie script,” intones Mr Freeman. “A former KGB spy, angry at the collapse of his motherland, plots a course for revenge…he sets his sights on his sworn enemy, the United States. And like the true KGB spy he is, he secretly uses cyber-warfare to attack democracies around the world …And he wins…Vladimir Putin is that spy. And this is no movie script.”

Mr Putin almost certainly did not expect Mr Trump to win. His government’s cyber-activity was more a haphazard and petty response to what the Kremlin perceived to be Hillary Clinton’s intervention in Mr Putin’s election of 2012. In contrast to the cold war, when all “active measures” were designed and conducted through a specially designated department of the KGB, some of the hacking and social-media disinformation was outsourced to mercenaries and “patriotic hackers”, as Mr Putin described them. As a result, says Maxim Kashulinsky, the founder and publisher of Republic, a liberal news site, many Russians have been genuinely surprised by America’s heavy-handed response to what are seen inside the country as pranks.

But Mr Putin underestimated the shock this reckless behaviour would cause in America. For many Americans, the history of Russia’s stand-off with the West ended in 1991. “By the grace of God, America won the cold war,” George H. W. Bush told Congress a few weeks after the collapse of the Soviet Union. For Russians, by contrast, after a brief hiatus in the 1990s, state propaganda returned to depicting America as the arch-enemy.

The Kremlin has long argued that it is under an “information attack” from the West. “In this frame there is no space for any idea of ‘truth’ or universal values,” argues Peter Pomerantsev, an expert on disinformation at the London School of Economics, in an article in the American Interest. “All information is war.” By accepting Russia’s frame of reference, the West, he argues, reinforces the Kremlin’s line and amplifies its efforts to show that America works in the same way as Russia.

During the cold war, the Soviet Union aimed to infect America and the West with its Communist ideology (or quasi-religion) and capture as many minds on the left as possible. Those Westerners who opposed capitalism played the part of useful idiots for the Soviet regime. Today’s Russia has the opposite goal. It projects no coherent ideology or religion beyond a mixture of authoritarianism and nationalism, but aims to portray its adversaries as being as cynical, corrupt and conspiratorial as Russia’s own leaders. Those who mimic the style of the Kremlin’s anti-Americanism play the role of useful idiots now.

Radio Moscow

“Neither Russia Today (RT) nor trolls are interested in really influencing US audiences,” says Vasily Gatov, a Russian media analyst and visiting fellow at the University of Southern California, referring to the Kremlin-financed news outlet. “Their goal is to make the Western system as such react to their work.” Their effectiveness is judged (and rewarded accordingly) not by what they actually achieve, but by the level of noise they create in the American media. Russian propagandists regularly and gleefully recite articles about “Russia’s menace”. RT is already capitalising on its image. Its advertisement in Lonon reads: “The CIA calls us a ‘propaganda machine’. Find out what we call the CIA.” Branding RT a foreign agent, as America has just done, may be accurate—but it also plays into the Kremlin’s hands.

From the Kremlin’s point of view, this is a welcome departure from the cool realism displayed by Barack Obama, who dismissed Russia as a regional power and described Mr Putin as a “bored kid in the back of the classroom”. Few things infuriate Mr Putin more than being ignored. He has been trying to get America’s attention ever since, and appears to have succeeded.

But this recognition carries a hefty price-tag for the Kremlin. As a result of Mr Trump’s election and Mr Putin’s attention-seeking, Russia has emerged as one of the few bipartisan issues in American politics. This has allowed both parties to come together to pass the bill on Russian sanctions. “It is like Christmas-time for us—there is no way we could have passed this bill through the Congress under Obama,” says one Republican staffer in the Senate.

The result is that American policy towards Russia is sounder now than it was under the two previous administrations. George W. Bush looked into Mr Putin’s eyes; Barack Obama followed Russia’s aggression against Georgia in 2008 with a “reset”. Mr Trump has an unexplained affection for Mr Putin, but his room to change policy is limited by the toxic cloud around Russia’s election interference.

Though Mr Trump enjoys long calls with Mr Putin, day-to-day policy has been left in the hands of professionals with few illusions about Mr Putin’s intentions. Fiona Hill, the author of one of the most perceptive books about Mr Putin, oversees Russia at the National Security Council. Her boss, General H.R. McMaster, closely studied Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its use of disinformation. The defence secretary, General Jim Mattis, leaned towards supplying Ukraine with “lethal defensive weapons”. “We need to manage tensions and avoid accidental clashes,” one senior government official says. “But we are not looking for any positive agenda.” You are not going to reach out if you get repeatedly punched in the face, the official says. “It is all about managing expectations. The lower the expectations, the easier they are to manage,” argues a former official.

The policy of no positive agenda, says Kirill Rogov, a Russian political analyst, deprives Mr Putin of his favoured blackmailing tactic. “His threats and aggression are only worth something if the West steps back and offers concessions and resets in exchange for him not escalating further.” This has repeatedly allowed Mr Putin to pocket his gains and present himself as a victor. If his counterparts refuse to negotiate, these threats lose their potency.

After two and a half decades of inflated hopes and expectations for peaceful coexistence, America is back to its old cold-war policy of containment and deterrence. One of the authors of that policy, George Kennan, concluded in his long telegram of 1946 that “the greatest danger that can befall us in coping with this problem of Soviet Communism, is that we shall allow ourselves to become like those with whom we are coping.” This is worth bearing in mind as the Russia investigation rumbles on.A 59-WORD plan to crack down on non-residents selling property in Britain was only a small move by the chancellor in the budget on November 22nd. But it marked a big victory for Stella Creasy. The backbench Labour MP had for weeks demanded that the government close a loophole through which foreign property-owners could avoid capital-gains tax when selling up. Now they will have to cough up £470m ($630m) over the next six years.

It capped off a legislative hat-trick for the MP for Walthamstow, who has a knack for turning campaigns into law. This summer Ms Creasy led a successful push to provide free abortions for women from Northern Ireland on the British mainland. In the previous parliament, she hounded the government into clamping down on payday lenders. All three cases demonstrate the impact a single MP can have, even when in opposition.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Yet enterprising politicians such as Ms Creasy are thin on the ground. Part of the problem is systemic. Whereas American congressmen make names for themselves by proposing bills on an individual basis, Britain’s system “does not encourage this sort of behaviour”, says Philip Cowley of Queen Mary University in London.

First, there are few avenues for backbenchers to turn pet projects into law. Private members’ bills, the main route available, are easily squished by filibustering. There have been high-profile successes: in the 1960s bans on abortion and homosexuality were lifted, and the death penalty abolished, thanks to private members’ bills. But these pieces of legislation succeeded thanks to a home secretary who was willing to give them time and support.

Second, MPs keen on advancing their own careers will usually avoid trampling on the toes of their party’s leadership by proposing their own amendments. British MPs are more dependent on their parties for promotion and funding than are their American counterparts. That makes them more obedient. MPs seeking a quiet life are content to spend their career as “lobby fodder”, wandering whichever way the whips in charge of corralling MPs tell them, adds Mr Cowley.

But now the balance is tipping in favour of backbenchers. Current parliamentary arithmetic gives them clout: only seven Tory MPs have to rebel before the Conservative government stares at defeat. Rebelling against your party can still hinder a career, but often the government will blink first and alter course rather than face a parliamentary rout. In any case, former rebels can still rise to the top. Jeremy Corbyn, who now leads the Labour Party, voted against it a sixth of the time when he was a backbencher and the party was in power. Partly for that reason, many of his own MPs do not much fear the Labour whip.

The ranks of the backbenchers have also been reinforced. Both Labour and the Tories have overhauled their cabinets in the past two years—the Tories after the Brexit vote, Labour following the rise of Mr Corbyn—casting experienced MPs to the backbenches. Hilary Benn, a former shadow foreign secretary sacked by Mr Corbyn last year, has hailed the current session as a “backbenchers’ parliament”.

Lastly, backbenchers have a bit more institutional power than they did. A Backbench Business Committee, set up in 2010, helps MPs organise votes on personal topics. Online petitions and social media enable them to create a stink. When coupled with an unstable government, the conditions are ripe for backbench MPs to take the initiative. Somebody has to.IT HAS long been an article of faith for hard Brexiteers: there is nothing to fear from the World Trade Organisation. Many are suspicious of the compromises that a free-trade deal with the EU may entail, such as accepting its rules or even its courts. So why not just walk out and trade with the EU as other countries do, on WTO terms?

One answer is that Britain’s relationship with the EU is far more intimate than most countries’. The EU accounts for 43% of Britain’s goods exports and half its imports. In services, which make up 80% of British GDP and almost half of exports, the EU market is crucial. Theresa May has dismissed a Canada-style free-trade deal because it would mean “restriction on our mutual market access”. Shifting to WTO terms would be worse still.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













It is also misleading to claim that the rest of the world trades with the EU on WTO terms. The Institute for Government, a think-tank in London, notes that all big countries have bilateral agreements on such trade-facilitating measures as customs co-operation, data exchange and standards. Hosuk Lee-Makiyama of ECIPE, a Brussels-based think-tank, says that only seven countries trade with the EU on WTO terms alone—and they are small fry like Cuba and Venezuela.

In any case, reverting to WTO rules is not simple. Britain was a founder of the organisation but now belongs as an EU member. To resume WTO membership independently will require a division of EU import quotas, notably for beef, lamb and butter. A first effort was roundly rejected by big food exporters like Brazil, Argentina and America. The WTO proceeds by consensus among its 164 members. Were Britain to leave the EU on acrimonious terms, negotiating its resumption of full WTO membership could be difficult.

Brexiteers say trade with third countries would be easier. Perhaps, but the EU has free-trade deals with some 60 countries, including South Korea and Mexico, and is negotiating one with Japan. It will not be easy for Britain to “grandfather” these deals, especially if it has walked out with no deal, if only because doing so would need EU agreement, too.

Then there is the WTO’s “most-favoured-nation” rule, which bars discrimination unless it is allowed by a fully registered free-trade deal. If after no deal Britain and the EU wanted bilateral trade to stay tariff-free, both sides would have to offer the same privileges to all WTO members. Services are barely covered by WTO rules. But even here, were Britain to seek to keep trade in services, the same terms would have to be given to several countries with which the EU has free-trade deals, including Canada. Subjection to WTO rules might yet prove more irksome than Brexiteers realise.ON THE first floor of a crumbling colonial building in Yangon, a teacher taps the words written on the board with a bamboo rod. “Repeat after me so you will remember this by heart,” she instructs. The whole class chants back in unison. The children have been regurgitating sentences all morning. No hands are raised, no questions asked. To earn promotion to the next form, there is no need to gain a proper understanding of the subject; memorising textbooks is all that is required. For the 40 pupils, rote learning will continue for years to come, until they complete high school.

Only one in ten students remains in school that long and passes the final exams. Although the vast majority of children in Myanmar enroll in primary school, half of them drop out by the second year of secondary school. Some do so because their families need the income they could earn by working. But most cite boredom, not poverty, as the main reason.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Myanmar’s schools were not always so bad. A centuries-old tradition of monastic education gave Myanmar one of the highest literacy rates in South-East Asia at the time of independence, in 1948. The University of Rangoon (as Yangon was then known) was one of the most respected in the region. Under British rule, knowledge of English spread widely.

All this changed after the army seized power in 1962. It blew up the university’s student union building and launched a campaign against foreign influence. Schools were nationalised and spending on them plummeted. In 2007-10 the government spent less than 1% of GDP on education, not even a third of the regional average. A World Bank study conducted in 2014 found that young pupils in Yangon, a relatively rich and privileged part of the country, were less good at reading than their counterparts not only in Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam, but also in Guatemala and Nicaragua.

The military regime saw textbooks as a tool of indoctrination more than instruction. In class, children were taught never to question authority. Fear, says Ma Thida, a Burmese writer, is rooted in Burmese minds from a very young age. She believes the atrocious education system has led to a society that is “intellectually blind”.

The curriculum is a source of irritation to minorities. Although the country has been racked by insurgencies since independence, history books describe its 135 official ethnic groups as living in peace and harmony. “This is not the real history,” says Nang Lun Kham Synt, an ethnic Shan who has just graduated from a government school. In fact, ethnic militias run their own schools and print their own textbooks, which often look like photographic negatives of the government’s.

Businessmen, meanwhile, complain that rote learning does not give students the skills they need in the workplace. As one puts it, the more educated you are, the less employable you become. He retrains his employees with tutorials and online classes.

Aung San Suu Kyi, the country’s de facto leader, whose National League for Democracy (NLD) took over from an army-backed government last year, says things will change. Education is one of the NLD’s priorities. A glossy booklet produced by the Ministry of Education promises to give Burmese children “21st-century skills”. The National Education Strategic Plan aims to develop vocational training and inject a dose of critical thinking into the classroom.

To turn this vision into a reality, the government is continuing with a vast increase in spending on education. This year it will stump up nearly four times more than in 2012. A new curriculum is being rolled out and teachers are being sent back to school.

But the process is chaotic and disjointed. At least nine foreign organisations are involved in fixing different parts of the system. Only kindergarten and first grade are using the new curriculum, with four conflicting schedules for when it will be introduced in other years. The final exams—the only thing students and parents really care about—are still untouched. “As it is, the curriculum seems like a bridge to nowhere,” says Rosalie Metro of the University of Missouri-Columbia.

According to Ms Metro, bureaucrats and foreign consultants have devised the reforms with little input from those with a direct stake in the system. Over noodle and fish soup, a group of teachers lament that they are never consulted about changes in the classroom. The National Network for Education Reform, an organisation of students, teachers and civil-society organisations, says the Ministry of Education does not listen. Thein Lwin, who is a member of the network, used to advise Ms Suu Kyi, but was sacked after helping students air their grievances during the passage of the education law. The new government may want more critical thinking in the classroom, but it does not seem to welcome it in public life.ONE custom in Mexico’s era of one-party rule was the dedazo (big finger), the president’s choice of his successor, who would inevitably be elected to a single six-year term. The authoritarian rule of the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) ended in 2000, but the dedazo returned on November 27th this year, when Enrique Peña Nieto, the president, chose his finance secretary, José Antonio Meade, as the PRI’s candidate in the presidential election to be held in July. This time, though, the dedazo that counts belongs to the voters.

Mr Meade’s selection begins a seven-month race for a tough job. The next president will have to deal with a soaring crime rate, anger about corruption, a weak economy and Donald Trump, who may by then have decided to tear up or drastically change the North American Free-Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between Mexico, the United States and Canada. Mr Peña’s successor will also have to decide whether to carry on with reforms of the economy, energy and education that he began.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Mr Meade is by no means guaranteed to win. On the contrary, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, a left-wing populist who has twice run for president, is ahead in most polls. If his lead holds, he will win the one-round election. A third contender is Ricardo Anaya, the head of the centre-right National Action Party (PAN), who is expected to be named as its candidate in December.

Mr Meade will find Mr Peña’s endorsement to be a mixed blessing. The president is the least popular on record, with an approval rating of 26% (though that is more than double what it was earlier this year). Voters think he has done too little to fight crime and corruption and, after a conflict-of-interest scandal, they doubt his honesty. Five out of six voters say corrupt leaders are a “very big problem”. In October 2,371 people were murdered in Mexico, the highest number on record for a single month. That makes a mockery of Mr Peña’s pledge in 2012 to halve the murder rate.

The economy shrank in the third quarter of this year after a pair of earthquakes in September killed more than 450 people. A collapse of NAFTA would do further damage. Only one in eight Mexicans thinks the country is on the right track and nearly half say they would never vote for the PRI. A few months ago some observers speculated that the party might not even bother to field a serious candidate for the presidency.

Technocrat on a tightrope

But Mr Meade is certainly that. In choosing him, Mr Peña went for somebody with little political baggage and lots of intellectual heft. Mr Meade is the first candidate for a major political party who does not belong to any party. An economist with a doctorate from Yale University, he has held more jobs in the cabinet than any living politician, including in the government of Felipe Calderón, who was president from 2006 to 2012 and belongs to the PAN. Mr Meade is thought to be honest. According to a quickie survey after his nomination by GCE, a pollster, 23% of voters back him, putting him six percentage points behind Mr López Obrador. That is not a bad start, considering that a third of voters have never heard of Mr Meade.

Yet to win he will need to perform a horribly tricky political balancing-act. He must attract voters from the PAN, the PRI’s long-time foe. Without them, “he is toast,” says Luis Rubio of CIDAC, a think-tank. At the same time, he must fire up the PRI’s supporters and make use of the party’s formidable electoral machine. Yet just 11% of PRI members named Mr Meade as their first choice to be the party’s presidential candidate.

If Mr Meade has his way, the election will be a referendum not on Mr Peña’s record but on Mr López Obrador, whom opponents portray as a Mexican version of Venezuela’s Nicolás Maduro (see Bello). AMLO, as Mr López Obrador is often known, mixes justified anger at the corrupt political establishment with populist ideas, such as making Mexico self-sufficient in energy and food.

He appeals mostly to the half of Mexicans deemed poor; ie, who make less than $79 a month if urban (or $56 if rural). Mr Trump’s habit of insulting Mexico helps Mr López Obrador, since he is the most vociferous nationalist among the main candidates. Mr Meade’s cross-party background buttresses Mr López Obrador’s claim that there is no difference between the big parties, and that only he can rescue Mexico from the “mafia of power”.

Lately, Mr López Obrador has all but discarded populist policies. On November 22nd his party, Morena, published a 415-page manifesto that promises nothing scarier than more spending on infrastructure and social programmes (and no tax rises to pay for it). His team has released a slickly produced biopic called “This is Me”, in which he visits his hometown in Tabasco and tells his life story over evocative piano melodies.

Mr Meade’s main rival for the anti-AMLO vote will probably be Mr Anaya, whose party has formed an alliance with the left-wing Party of the Democratic Revolution, Mr López Obrador’s former party, and the smaller Citizens’ Movement. Mr Anaya hopes this Citizens’ Front will cut into Mr López Obrador’s support while continuing to appeal to the PAN’s core of pro-business voters. Last week the PAN announced that it favours a basic income for every Mexican, a measure designed to appeal to Mr López Obrador’s voters.

Mr Anaya’s allies insist he is better placed than Mr Meade to defeat AMLO. Mr Meade will be seen as an “accomplice” in corruption for failing to denounce it in Mr Peña’s government, they say. His soft-spoken style will fail to mobilise voters. “Meade is a good technician, but he is not a politician,” says an adviser to Mr Anaya.

But Mr Anaya has handicaps at least as severe. He is less of a policy heavyweight than Mr Meade and less of a protest candidate than Mr López Obrador. Many Mexicans see the Citizens’ Front as a marriage of convenience rather than one of conviction. It could lose votes to Margarita Zavala, Mr Calderón’s wife, who quit the PAN in October to run for president as an independent. Ms Zavala criticises the Front’s candidate-selection process as “undemocratic” (the Front says it has not yet agreed on a process). She has a good relationship with Mr Meade dating from his service in her husband’s cabinet; some analysts think she may eventually drop out and endorse him.

If that happens, the race may be between Mr Meade, a non-political member of the establishment, and Mr López Obrador, an anti-establishment politician. Mr Peña will be keeping his fingers crossed.Women and the War on Boko Haram: Wives, Weapons, Witnesses. By Hilary Matfess. Zed Books; 288 pages; $24.95 and £14.99.

ON APRIL 14th 2014, militants from Boko Haram, a group of Islamic extremists, snatched 276 schoolgirls from their dormitories in north-east Nigeria. The taking of the “Chibok Girls”, as they became known, was unplanned (the insurgents had reportedly meant to grab food and a brickmaking machine). But the heist catapulted a little-known conflict to international attention. The #BringBackOurGirls campaign led by the girls’ parents and activists had the resonance needed to go viral: young, innocent and mostly Christian girls forced to convert to Islam by violent jihadists. Boko Haram knew the girls’ propaganda power too. A video it released in 2014 showed more than 100 swathed in gloomy hijabs, chanting prayers.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













The Chibok Girls became symbols in other ways. Some escaped, others were let go after negotiations and more than 100 are still captives. Those escapees given scholarships to study in America were made by their benefactors to talk endlessly about their abduction for fundraising appeals. The kidnap also allowed Nigeria’s incompetent army to strut as heroes on a rescue mission (though the army has not directly rescued any of the girls).

It also obscured a much bigger problem. More than 2,000 women were abducted by Boko Haram between the beginning of 2014 and spring 2015, according to Amnesty International, and many more since. A majority of Boko Haram suicide-bombers have been female, many of them girls coerced or brainwashed into their missions.

Hilary Matfess, a doctoral candidate at Yale University, adeptly dismantles stereotypes and myths in her new book, “Women and the War on Boko Haram”. That war has displaced up to 2.1m people and killed more than 30,000 since 2011. Not all the women involved are victims. Many decided to marry into the group, often against their parents’ wishes. In a region where just 4% of girls finish secondary school and many women do back-breaking farm work, life as a stay-at-home Boko Haram wife receiving Quranic education can appeal. “There was 100% better treatment under Boko Haram,” a commander’s wife who had been “rescued” by the army told Ms Matfess. “There were more gifts, better food and a lot of sex that I always enjoyed.”

Uncommonly for an armed group, Boko Haram’s leaders purportedly forbid their soldiers to commit rape, outside of marriage at least, so many women have been forced to wed their captors. But here Ms Matfess provides valuable context: more than half of women in northern Nigeria marry by the age of 16, and marital rape is not illegal.

Meanwhile, women escaping the jihadists have often fared no better. Nigerian soldiers burn villages cleared of Boko Haram (ostensibly to stop looting), and have been accused of killing men and forcing women to become their wives. Camps for those displaced by the war are rife with abuse, with repeated reports of rape.

Ms Matfess is best when weaving the stories of women with analysis of Boko Haram and Nigeria’s gender politics. But her argument for “gender-sensitive programming” in the humanitarian response feels less than equal to the enormous task. Nonetheless, hers is a welcome contribution to a narrative that has been dominated by oversimplified symbolism.THE plot was made for Bollywood: a princess so beautiful that a lustful prince besieges a spectacular fortress to catch her, and so virtuous that she hurls herself into a fire rather than surrender. Movie producers were not the first to be inspired by the story of Padmini, the loyal wife of the Rana of Chittor. The French composer Albert Roussel’s “Padmavati”, an opera about this paragon of princesses, debuted in Paris in 1923. A century before that James Tod, a British officer and amateur historian, incorporated the tale in his “Annals and Antiquities of Rajasthan”, a work widely translated and reprinted in India. His romantic version appealed especially to Rajputs, the Hindu warrior caste that supplied the rulers of numerous princely states in western India. The image of the radiant Padmini foiling a Muslim invader fitted a narrative of heroic resistance that was far more enchanting than the messy truth, which was that Rajput rulers generally fought each other as much as they did Muslim or European invaders.

The story appears to be the invention of a sixteenth-century Sufi poet by the name of Malik Muhammad Jayasi. His epic poem, “Padmavat”, concludes with the frank statement: “I have made up this story and related it.” There are contemporary chronicles of the fighting Jayasi alludes to, which took place two centuries before he was born. These describe in some detail the siege and capture of Chittor castle in 1303 by Alauddin Khalji, the sultan of Delhi. They note the death in battle of the Rana of Chittor, but make no mention of his wife, nor of any motive for the siege other than territorial conquest.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Screen test

The latest version of the tale, a high-budget film called “Padmavati”, was due to be released on December 1st. It stars Deepika Padukone, one of India’s highest-paid actresses. During production last year, rumours leaked that the director, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, had included a steamy dream sequence that hinted at carnal relations between the Muslim warrior and the Hindu princess.

The rumour was enough to prompt Rajput extremists to attack the set during filming in Rajasthan earlier this year. Some dismissed the rumpus as a publicity stunt, an impression reinforced when a sting operation by Indian journalists revealed that, in exchange for money, the Rajput group cheerfully offered to attack another film production. But as the premiere of “Padmavati” approached and extremists threatened to riot, politicians could not resist the temptation to wade in. One after another, the chief ministers of four states with lots of Rajput voters announced that they would ban this film that insulted the honour of the imaginary princess. Upping the ante, the senior spokesman in the state of Haryana for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which runs both the state government and the national one, said he would pay a reward of ten crore rupees (around $1.5m) to anyone who brought him the severed head of Ms Padukone.

Ms Padukone’s head is probably safe, and “Padmavati” will, in all likelihood, still be released after its makers agree to some small changes with government censors. Indeed, the publicity may well win it big audiences. Moreover, after a prolonged and unseemly silence from the leaders of the BJP, including Narendra Modi, the prime minister, the party is exercising some restraint: the bloodthirsty spokesman has resigned. But the lesson of the controversy is not that sanity prevailed. It is that India’s politicians are all too happy to pander to extremist sentiment, however silly it may be, so long as it flows in a useful direction.

With another election always around the corner—Mr Modi’s home state of Gujarat goes to the polls next week—why challenge a myth that echoes one of the BJP’s vote-winning warnings, that Muslim seducers are waging a “love jihad” against vulnerable Hindu women? Perhaps not surprisingly, in Gujarat itself it was another film that briefly stirred more controversy. The anonymously produced clip, which was widely shared, shows a Hindu schoolgirl fearfully walking down a darkened street, with the Muslim call to prayer reverberating in the background. When she finally reaches home and falls tearfully into the arms of her parents, a voice explains that in the past “we” were fearful, but now Mr Modi is here to protect us.

Even India’s Supreme Court appears vulnerable to the trope of a lurking Muslim menace. In late November it produced a bizarre fudge in the case of Hadiya, a 25-year-old convert to Islam whose Hindu parents had persuaded a lower court to separate her forcibly from her Muslim husband and return her to the family, on the ground that she was a victim of love jihad. Ms Hadiya has repeatedly and loudly declared that she wishes to be with her husband. But instead of ruling that as an adult citizen of a secular republic, she had a right to choose, they ordered her to go back to college and be placed under the “guardianship” of its dean.

There are many countries where, with questions of belief and communal identity, many people seem keen to suspend judgment, quash doubts or simply to ignore bright, plain facts. Myths are so much more energising, and those who insist on dreary evidence risk being charged with sins that range from killjoy pedantry all the way to high treason. This is very much the case for India and its immediate neighbours, but with an added pinch of spice, which is that people in power often show unusual glee in posing as defenders of tradition, however that may be defined to suit their purposes and whatever the consequences. More than others, Indians should know that such play-acting heroism is a dangerous game; all too often it is just such seemingly silly things as a rumour about a film, or a suspicion of profanity, that spark runaway destruction. Commenting on the “Padmavati” controversy, Pratap Bhanu Mehta, one of India’s most insightful commentators, lamented the failure of its politicians to stand up for freedom. “The usurper of peoples’ liberties”, he warned, “will always speak in the name of their sentiments.”TO NATO officials, it must have seemed like a bad joke. Earlier this autumn, Turkey’s state-run news agency published an infographic on the S-400 missile-defence system, which President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government is buying from Russia. After praising the system’s prowess, including its ability to intercept enemy fighter jets and incoming missiles at a range of up to 400km, the graphic cited examples of planes the S-400 could knock down. Every single one was an American aircraft.

Turkey’s allies have learned to ignore such needling, examples of which often pop up in the pro-government press. But they are following the missile deal itself with increasing unease. NATO officials say Mr Erdogan’s government is free to shop for military hardware wherever it pleases, but take a dim view of its decision to do so in Russia. Analysts point out that the S-400 would not be interoperable with NATO’s air-defence system. The chairman of NATO’s military committee, Petr Pavel, recently warned of unspecified “consequences” if Turkey were to go ahead with the purchase. The presence of Russian missiles on Turkish soil, he said on October 25th, would create “challenges for allied [aircraft] potentially deployed onto the territory of that country”. Nonetheless, Turkey’s defence minister announced on November 11th that the sale had been agreed.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













It risks running foul of American sanctions against Russia. In October the State Department said it reserved the right to penalise governments that buy military equipment from Moscow. (The Russian arms companies blacklisted on its website now include the makers of the S-400.) Although countries can apply for exemptions, Turkey’s sorry human-rights record, as well as unprecedented tensions with the US, do not help its cause. Outraged by the arrests of two local consular staffers by Mr Erdogan’s police, America suspended visa services across Turkey in October. The ban has since been relaxed. But the bad blood remains.

Relations with NATO are also increasingly fraught. In November Turkey withdrew its troops from a NATO exercise in Norway after an “enemy chart” prepared for the occasion by a contractor was found to include Mr Erdogan’s name and a picture of Turkey’s founding father, Kemal Ataturk. Turkey’s government accepted an apology from NATO’s highest official, but insisted on a thorough investigation. The ultranationalist and Islamist media seized on the occasion and called on Turkey to withdraw from the alliance.

American officials have long suggested that the best way to defend Turkish airspace would be to buy the US-made Patriot system, the kind already sold to Germany, the Netherlands, Greece and Saudi Arabia, among others. Their counterparts in Turkey agree that the Patriot system is the better option, but balk at the price tag and fear that the Americans will transfer less technology to Turkey as part of a missile deal than the Russians might. Also, Mr Erdogan’s reputation in Washington is so bad that any deal could be torpedoed by Congress. “If they don’t give us visas, they probably won’t sell us Patriots,” quips one Turkish official.

For now, Mr Erdogan’s ministers say, the S-400 is the best system Turkey can afford. Under the deal, Turkey says it will receive four missile batteries, for around $2bn. But because the S-400 cannot be plugged into NATO’s radar network, and Turkey would have only four batteries, the system would be able to defend only a fraction of Turkey’s airspace. (Turkish officials acknowledge that the S-400 is a stop-gap measure, and say that their country remains in the market for a NATO-compatible system.) Some analysts suspect that Mr Erdogan’s enthusiasm for the deal has less to do with national defence and more with his fear of a repeat of last summer’s failed coup, when F-16 fighter jets manned by rogue pilots struck his palace compound in Ankara. “If Turkey buys the S-400, putting one of the batteries in Ankara makes sense,” says Aaron Stein of the Atlantic Council, a think-tank. “Its primary mission could be [to protect] the palace.”

There is another snag looming. Mr Erdogan’s government is still insisting that Russia must allow it to produce some of the S-400 batteries at home. Yet Mr Putin is not in the habit of handing over sensitive defence technology to anyone. He no doubt hopes that a missile deal would deepen Turkey’s rift with the West, but he must also be wary of sharing Russian secrets with a NATO member. So despite all the posturing, the deal could yet unravel.IT OUGHT to be a love-in. American companies support tax cuts and deregulation. As The Economist went to press, President Donald Trump was pushing the Senate to pass a sweeping, business-friendly tax reform. Instead, CEOs have reason to feel uneasy. In the first year of his presidency, executives have found themselves embroiled in public disputes with Mr Trump on everything from immigration to climate change. His advisory councils of business leaders have disbanded. The second year of his presidency is unlikely to be much smoother.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Some of these spats between the Oval Office and the corner office reflect Mr Trump’s peculiar style of governing. But they point to something bigger, too (see article). Executives who would rather concentrate on commerce are finding it ever harder to avoid politics, in America and beyond.

One reason lies in the forces that propelled Mr Trump to office. In a recent survey of people in 28 countries, 62% of respondents worried about globalisation; 55% thought an influx of foreigners was harming their economy and culture. These trends are marked in the United States. Two-thirds of Americans are concerned about immigration. Three-quarters think the government should protect local jobs and industry, even if that slows growth. Furthermore, trust in CEOs is dropping. In the survey just 38% thought they were very credible, down by five points from 2016. What was once standard business practice, whether minimising tax bills or investing abroad, exposes CEOs to suspicion and the intrusion of politics.

Consumers can now express their opinions dramatically online. Keurig Green Mountain, a maker of coffee machines, recently tweeted that it had halted advertising on a Fox News programme whose host had appeared to defend Roy Moore, a Senate candidate accused of dating and assaulting teenagers. Afterwards consumers posted videos of themselves bashing Keurig machines. As one commenter pointed out, everyone might feel less cranky if they stopped boycotting coffee firms. But that wouldn’t save bosses from controversy.

Employees, many of them in the big, Democrat-leaning metropolitan areas where large companies are often based, increasingly demand that their firms take positions on issues ranging from gay rights to climate change. Nearly half of young American employees say they would be more loyal if their boss took a public position on a social issue. A big test came in 2015, when Indiana was considering a “religious freedom” bill that would have let firms and non-profit organisations discriminate against gay and transgender people; Apple and Salesforce.com were among those to oppose it, saying it would harm their customers and staff.

And shareholders are judging firms on broader criteria than financial ones. Investments that considered environmental, social and governance factors accounted for $13.3trn of assets under management in 2012; that sum was $22.9trn in 2016. Over a fifth of the funds under professional management in America fall into this category, up from a ninth in 2012.

Not every company faces the same pressures: a consumer-facing firm needs to be more attuned than a corporate-facing one. Nor is there a simple recipe for how a business should best balance purely commercial goals with the competing interpretations of its social responsibilities from employees, customers and shareholders. But to help them navigate the era of activism, CEOs should bear two rules of thumb in mind.

The profitable is political

The first is to be consistent. Firms can no longer spout platitudes about corporate “values”; independent watchdogs and staff stand ready to brand discrepancies as hypocrisy. Google recently became a model of what to avoid. An employee wrote a memo on women and tech firms; Google fired him, saying the memo violated its code of conduct and created a hostile environment for women. That undermined free speech (which Google vows to defend online) and called attention to how the firm fails the group it was claiming to protect (it is under scrutiny for paying men more than women).

The second is to adopt an old Goldman Sachs mantra, of being “long-term greedy”. CEOs have to watch quarterly results. But to maximise the long-run value of their firms, they must anticipate the shifting preferences of various constituencies, from staff and customers to regulators and investors. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s boss, warned last month that heavier investments in online policing would squeeze short-term earnings, but said that this would protect the firm’s long-term health. He might have done well to reach that conclusion sooner. Anticipating changes to political and social norms is hard. But it is a vital part of the CEO’s job description.HIS protest camp had been blocking a busy motorway for more than three weeks. He had been giving speeches to the protesters denouncing politicians as “pigs”, “pimps” and “dogs”. Yet Khadim Rizvi, a Muslim cleric, was not worried about being forcibly evicted by the army. “Why would they take action against us,” he asked, “when we are fulfilling their goals?” He meant that they all wanted to defend Islam, but he might just as well have been referring to humiliating and undermining the ruling party, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N).

On October 30th the wheelchair-bound Mr Rizvi and around 5,000 supporters gathered at Faizabad interchange, an important junction on the road between Islamabad, the capital, and the nearby city of Rawalpindi. They brought in tents and water-tankers. Clerics riled up the crowd. Protesters vowed not to leave “even if they behead us”—which was hardly likely.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













The fervour was prompted by a change the government approved on October 2nd to the oath administered to MPs and other senior officials. Instead of confirming that Muhammad was the last of the prophets with the phrase “I solemnly swear”, oath-takers would now only have to say, “I believe”. Angry clerics declared this to be a veiled concession to the 4m-odd Pakistanis who belong to the Ahmadi sect and so believe that another prophet followed Muhammad—a view seen as heretical by doctrinaire Muslims. The government swiftly reversed the change, saying it had arisen from a clerical error.

But the protesters were not satisfied. They demanded the resignation of Zahid Hamid, the law minister. The courts, meanwhile, ordered the government to disperse the protest. So, on November 25th around 8,500 riot police began firing tear gas and rubber bullets at the crowd. Hundreds more Islamists raced to the scene to fight back, throwing stones and wielding sticks. Six people were killed. With the battle at a stalemate, the government called on the army to help. The army, despite supposedly being under civilian control, refused. Instead it offered to “mediate” between the protesters and the government.

A hard bargain

Two days later, the results of the army’s mediation were revealed: Mr Hamid resigned, all the protesters who had been arrested were released without charge, and the government promised an inquiry into the redrafting of the oath. The protesters duly dispersed. A general was spotted handing out cash to departing participants.

Observers criticised the government for stumbling into the controversy. Its failure to explain or defend the redrafting of the oath was “cowardly”, says Mosharraf Zaidi, a columnist. Most lawyers find it hard to detect any concession to Ahmadis in the revised wording, whatever the protesters may have claimed. In the wake of the surrender, a cartoonist depicted the prime minister, Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, as himself wheelchair-bound.

Yet the fiercest criticism was reserved for the armed forces. A High Court judge said that the army had no business acting as mediator, and should simply have followed orders. He also ordered an inquiry into how the protesters obtained weapons that helped them fight off the police. An editorial in Dawn, a liberal newspaper, argued that the armed forces indulged the protest because of an “ongoing power struggle” with the government. Asma Jahangir, a human-rights lawyer, lamented “the death warrant of democracy”.

In recent weeks the army has admitted to encouraging radical Islamists to run for political office; been revealed by one of its political proxies as the driving force behind a merger between two parties; and seen Pervez Musharraf, a former coup leader, try (and fail) to launch a new party. Most believe the army’s goal in all this is to sap the support of the PML-N and eliminate the political influence of Nawaz Sharif, its eponymous leader and Pakistan’s prime minister until July.

Mr Sharif, the darling of Punjab, the most populous province, was ousted by the Supreme Court for failing to declare a salary to which he was entitled but which he never received. The army had no obvious part in that decision, though many speculate about its role behind the scenes. The army did, however, force Mr Sharif from office twice in the 1990s. Najam Sethi, a former Economist correspondent who is close to Mr Sharif, says the army has offered to end his family’s legal troubles if he goes into exile. Politicians report receiving phone calls warning them not to vote for a recent bill that removed the ban on convicted politicians from running parties, paving the way for Mr Sharif to resume his former post as head of the PML-N.

Mr Sharif’s main political rival, Imran Khan, a former cricket star, stoutly defends the military and the mullahs. Many suspect him of hoping to follow a familiar, army-cleared path to office. If so, he might succeed. Mr Sharif is still barred from serving as prime minister. He might be in jail by the next election, in 2018, depending on the result of his ongoing trial on charges of money-laundering.

But Mr Khan and his friends in the army may find it hard to break the PML-N’s hold on Punjab, and thus on power. The army might be content, reckons Ayesha Siddiqa, a defence analyst, to settle for a weakened government led by the PML-N.

Whatever the army’s goal, it will find it hard to stage-manage politics in the long run. Every time it has intervened in politics, popular support for democracy has grown. And even proxies can develop a will of their own. Mr Sharif may now be the army’s biggest foe, but he began his career as an ally of the generals.IN 2009, as Brazil was buffeted by the global financial crisis, its president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, was seething. The mess, he complained, was the fault of “blue-eyed white people, who previously seemed to know everything, and now demonstrate they know nothing at all”. For him the crisis was a repudiation of Anglo-Saxon liberalism and a vindication of state capitalism. Like many countries, Brazil cut interest rates and increased spending. Unlike many other governments, however, Brazil’s used its state development bank, BNDES, to funnel subsidised credit to Brazil’s largest companies. Thanks to cheap loans from the Treasury, the bank doubled its lending, which reached a peak of 4.3% of GDP in 2010. For most loans the interest rates were half the level of Selic, the central bank’s benchmark.

The plan worked, for a while. Brazil emerged from the crisis relatively unscathed: after a short recession in 2009 the economy rebounded with GDP growth of 7.5% in 2010. But the stimulus outlived the recovery, at an increasing cost to the taxpayer. Between 2009 and 2016 subsidies from the Treasury to BNDES totalled 116bn reais ($48bn). Brazil’s big firms became hooked on cheap credit. Some have faced allegations that they obtained the loans fraudulently. One, a meatpacking firm called JBS, borrowed 8.1bn reais from BNDES; it went on a spending spree, buying meat producers in America, Australia and Europe, and became the world’s largest meatpacker. BNDES ballooned, too. It now accounts for 15% of total lending to the private sector; its balance-sheet is as big as the World Bank’s.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













But times have changed. Brazil is emerging only slowly from its worst-ever recession, having lost its status as an investment-grade sovereign borrower in 2015. Its public finances are enfeebled: last year it recorded a gross fiscal deficit (ie, including debt service) of 8.9% of GDP. Government subsidies are on the chopping block. BNDES currently lends at a small margin over the cost of its funds from the Treasury—a rate called the TJLP, which is set low by the National Monetary Council, a body composed of the central-bank governor and the finance and planning ministers. In September Brazil’s Congress decided to replace this rate with a new one, known as the TLP, which will be set monthly by the central bank and indexed to five-year government bonds. The new rate will be introduced on January 1st and will be phased in over five years. This could save Brazil’s Treasury 0.25% of GDP a year, predicts Neil Shearing of Capital Economics, a research firm.

Not everyone is cheering. BNDES’s customers complain that their cost of capital will go up, threatening jobs. Raising the interest rate is also likely to reduce BNDES’s market share and so squeeze its profits, warns Moody’s, a ratings agency. But the reform has been welcomed by small and medium-sized firms. Brazil’s central bank is currently forced to set Selic at an artificially high level to offset the impact of BNDES’s subsidised rate on the wider economy. By “making all credit in the economy sensitive to the central bank”, monetary policy will become more effective, argues Arthur Carvalho of Morgan Stanley. So borrowing costs should come down for companies too small to tap BNDES (the bank does not currently offer loans of less than 20m reais).

The reform is an important advance in Brazil’s government’s efforts to bring public spending and the fiscal deficit under control. But it does not go nearly far enough in reducing the deficit. The country’s overgenerous, unaffordable pension system costs 13% of GDP. Without reform, public spending on pensions could reach a fifth of GDP by 2060, when the number of over-65s is projected to increase from 17m now to 58m. Hopes that a pension reform could pass Congress were high until May, when Michel Temer, Brazil’s president, became embroiled in a corruption scandal. Efforts to revive it have so far come to naught. Reforming BNDES is overdue. But it will take even more belt-tightening to put the country on a firm financial footing.AS AN illustration of what ails congressional Democrats, Nancy Pelosi’s recent attempt to defend an 88-year-old party grandee who was alleged to have shown up to work in his pyjamas, fondled generations of female employees and to have asked at least one of them to “touch it”, is hard to beat. The Democrats’ long-serving House leader, who is merely 77, had been asked on NBC about the allegations against Representative John Conyers of Michigan, the House’s longest-serving member. She responded by calling him an “icon”. Asked whether she believed his accusers, Mrs Pelosi blustered: “I don’t know who they are. Do you? They have not really come forward.” At least five former staffers of Mr Conyers, who was until this week the ranking Democrat on the House judiciary committee and a force in the Congressional Black Caucus, had at that time accused him of inappropriate behaviour. One had received a pay-off from his office funds.

That Mrs Pelosi should be tarred by the culture of impunity sex pests have been enjoying on Capitol Hill is, in a sense, cruelly unfortunate. As a successful Speaker of the House between 2007 and 2011, and the first woman to fill that role, she has done a lot for women’s empowerment. She was also quick to realise her error. Her office put out a corrective statement shortly afterwards and Mrs Pelosi has since said she believes at least one of Mr Conyers’s accusers, while in private she has urged the octogenarian congressman to resign, as he probably soon will. Yet her instinctive refusal to condemn him also reflected another sort of impunity, for too long enjoyed by the House Democrats’ aged and complacent leaders, even as their party has become increasingly diminished and resentful of their command.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Even if the Democrats did not urgently need to attract younger voters to compensate for the meltdown in their working-class base, the fact that the average age of their House leadership is over 70 would seem problematic. Consider why this is, and it looks far worse. Mrs Pelosi and her fellow leaders are sustained by a sclerotic patronage system, of which her pandering to Mr Conyers was indicative, which has banished accountability and fresh talent from the upper reaches of the party. For her part, Mrs Pelosi remains in many ways an impressive leader—she is a relentless fundraiser and adept caucus manager, at once pragmatic and acceptable to the Democrats’ ascendant left. Yet given that her party is as unpopular as Donald Trump, and that she is the prime beneficiary of one of its main structural weaknesses, she is probably doing the Democrats less good than harm.

The offending system is itself testament to the cost of ducking difficult decisions. For while power has become increasingly centralised in both parties in recent decades, the Democrats have muddled that transition by maintaining some of the architecture of a more fragmented past. Where House Republicans have abandoned seniority rules and imposed term-limits on the chairing of congressional committees and subcommittees, for example, the Democrats have refrained. Those plums have duly been captured by a minority of increasingly aged Democrats in safe seats, an arrangement the well-organised black caucus has fiercely guarded. Most other Democratic House members, meanwhile, face increasingly arduous fights for survival, in a toxic political environment, with little prospect of leadership any time soon. Had Barack Obama won and hung onto the Illinois House district he once sought to represent, he might still be waiting to advance beyond the House energy committee, where his vanquisher in that primary contest, Bobby Rush, plies his trade.

No wonder many talented Democrats, recently including Rahm Emanuel, Kirsten Gillibrand and Chris Van Hollen, have quit the House at the first good opportunity. “At the end of each cycle, you ask yourself, ‘Is what I can achieve worth the personal, financial and emotional cost?’” asks a former Democratic member of Congress, who concluded it was not. House Republicans have serious problems of their own, but at least a churn of congressional talent; the Democrats are by contrast a stagnant pool. The result is that one of the best reasons for retaining Mrs Pelosi is that there is no one obvious to replace her. This is insane.

Dissatisfaction with Mrs Pelosi within her caucus runs deep. On the basis of the unprecedentedly stiff leadership challenge she faced after the general election from Tim Ryan, a burly Ohioan, at least a third of House Democrats want her out. Yet few of the dissidents dare say publicly why she should go. Most blame the Republicans—as Mr Ryan did—by arguing that she has become so demonised by the right as to be repellent to swing voters. Yet while that is true, and a source of Republican glee, there is no proof it hurts the Democrats electorally. Only three people matter in House races, the candidates and the president. Given the Republicans’ appetite for personal destruction, moreover, Mrs Pelosi’s successor would in no time be similarly traduced. So here are four better reasons for Mrs Pelosi to move on.

Quit while you’re ahead

First, no Democratic leader has been held accountable for nearly a decade of withering defeats for the party, including the reduction of its House representation to the lowest level since the 1920s. If Mrs Pelosi was serious in arguing, after her Conyers blunder, that politicians should be held to the same standard of accountability as the rest of us, she should belatedly take the hit. Second, her patronage nexus and controlling leadership style are obstacles to the reform and infusion of talent and ideas her party needs. Third, on a related note, much of that effort should be directed to reconnecting with working-class voters, at which Mrs Pelosi, who appears to think the minimum wage a boon for them, rather than a policy to help the lowest paid, is ill-suited. Fourth, her contribution to the Democratic Party has been immense. It would be a shame to sully it by overstaying her usefulness more than she already has.HAVING promised at his inauguration on November 24th to “hit the ground running”, Emmerson Mnangagwa has no time to lose. Somehow, he must persuade Zimbabweans that he can improve their lives after 37 years of despotism and decline under Robert Mugabe. Already people have been chuffed by one striking change: the police are almost nowhere to be seen on the streets of Harare, the capital, whereas previously they were ubiquitous, shaking down drivers for minor or fictitious traffic offences. That is no small matter. It used to cost $10-20 to make a cop go away, when a blue-collar urban wage is perhaps $250 a month.

When the chief of police, Augustine Chihuri, swore allegiance to the new president at the inauguration ceremony, a roar of boos erupted across the stadium. Mr Mnangagwa would earn easy plaudits if he sacked a man who failed utterly to curb corruption within the police. Mr Chihuri is also reviled for his ties to Mr Mugabe’s unpopular wife, Grace, who had Mr Mnangagwa chased out of the vice-presidency and into exile barely three weeks ago.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













The new president’s broader intentions will be shown by the cabinet he is expected to appoint imminently. He has already reinstated Patrick Chinamasa, whom Mr Mugabe sacked in October, as acting finance minister. By the abysmal standards of the ruling party, Zanu-PF, Mr Chinamasa is quite competent. His downfall had been precipitated by Mr Mugabe’s repeated refusal to let him meet the demands of the IMF, such as thinning the public sector and abolishing corrupt parastatal outfits, as the price of unlocking the loans urgently needed to rescue an economy that is once again in rapid decline.

A clutch of members of the previous cabinet are in hiding, or under arrest, or have fled abroad. Most notably Ignatius Chombo, Mr Mugabe’s last finance minister, appeared in court in leg-irons the day after the inauguration, charged with corruption, which he denies. By contrast, Chris Mutsvangwa, the influential head of the liberation war veterans’ association, who turned against the Mugabes, may get a top job. A former ambassador to China, he hails Mr Mnangagwa as Zimbabwe’s Deng Xiaoping: an economic reformer who will keep the lid on political dissent.

Mr Mnangagwa has intimated that he will junk some of Mr Mugabe’s more ruinous policies in an effort to woo back foreign investment. First on his list must be a repeal of the “indigenisation” law that requires most firms to be majority-owned by black Zimbabweans. (In practice, this has often meant Zanu-PF bigwigs.) Several of the ministers keenest on this law were in Mrs Mugabe’s camp. As an early gesture to embattled business people, Mr Mnangagwa offered a three-month amnesty to those who have illegally siphoned dollars out of the country, if they bring them back.

One of the new president’s biggest tasks will be to deal with the vexed question of land. Nearly all of Zimbabwe’s 4,000-plus commercial farmers (who were mostly white) had their lands confiscated by Mr Mugabe since 2000, prompting the collapse of the country’s entire agriculture-driven economy. Farmers’ representatives expect Mr Mnangagwa to undo some of the damage. “There’s a real opportunity to change this country’s direction,” says Charles Taffs, a former head of the Commercial Farmers’ Union, who sits on a compensation steering committee that has previously had discussions with people close to Mr Mnangagwa. “He’s a strong, intelligent pragmatist who knows what needs to be done to put this country on the road to recovery.”

Compensation for land previously confiscated, says Mr Taffs, a coffee farmer who has had land nabbed, “is the elephant in the room”. The figures have already been nailed down, he says. The Valuation Consortium, formed of eight local companies, has made detailed assessments in 153 zones across the country, valuing the grabbed land at $3bn-3.5bn and improvements (including equipment and so forth) at $5bn-5.5bn.

Beyond compensation, the key is to re-establish security of land tenure for commercial farmers of any colour—and to reassure business people that property rights in general will be respected under a post-Mugabe regime. Otherwise the banks will not lend. But this will be politically tricky. Even the supposed pragmatists in Zanu-PF have argued that land should be owned by the state and leased out. Yet if land is to reacquire real value and be tradable on the open market, farmers must be granted freehold. “Land needs to be bankable,” says John Robertson, a veteran economist in Harare. “You should be able to go to an estate agent, not to a minister, to sell to anyone.” Leasehold, he says, will always be vulnerable to the interference of corrupt ministers. In the past, Mr Mnangagwa has promoted a so-called “command agriculture model”. The very name suggests state control.

Only 50 or so white farmers are reckoned to have remained unscathed as active owners. Another 200-odd may still operate on diminished acreages, often in co-operation with black farmers who have been dished out chunks of their land. But in the past year or so, several hundred more whites have returned to the land, says Mr Taffs, often as managers or leaseholders, sometimes overseeing the acquisitions of well-connected blacks.

If compensation is settled and property rights respected anew, Zimbabwe’s agriculture could recover fast. For sure, the destruction will take years to reverse. For instance, the national dairy herd is down to a third of its previous capacity. And no one expects very many of the white farmers to come back. Still, enough could do so in various guises to make a vital difference.

If there is a chance of Mr Mnangagwa reversing some of Mr Mugabe’s most disastrous economic policies, few expect him to soften Zimbabwe’s brutal politics. A few non-party technocrats and even members of the opposition may make it into his cabinet. “He may slightly widen the political space,” says Sam Monroe of Magamba Network, a civic-rights organisation. He notes that one of his colleagues, an American woman, who was remanded in jail for a week just before Mr Mnangagwa’s flight abroad, still faces a criminal charge of insulting the president—ie, Mr Mugabe.

After all, the new man was the old one’s most forceful security minister and election-rigger. At his inauguration he promised a fair election by the middle of 2018, as the constitution requires. International lenders and Western governments will press him to meet a string of political conditions as the price of crucial economic aid. Among other things, this would include a revamped election commission; the removal of the coup-making army from politics; proper international election observers; voting rights for Zimbabwe’s vast diaspora; proper protection for the media; and the repeal of a host of repressive laws.

The test of the ballot

But would Mr Mnangagwa ever permit an election he might lose? Unless he undergoes a Damascene conversion (he is said to be a born-again Christian), few would expect it. But the opposition is weak and fractious. Most Zimbabweans, however sceptical, want to give the Crocodile, as Mr Mnangagwa is known, a chance. If he really began to rescue the economy, he might even win an election without rigging it.JUAN ORLANDO HERNÁNDEZ (pictured), Honduras’s president, boasts that he has brought stability and security, but his run for re-election has caused turmoil. As The Economist went to press on November 30th it was unclear who had won the election held four days before. After Mr Hernández’s rival, Salvador Nasralla, posted an early lead, vote-counting slowed to a crawl and the incumbent closed the gap. With 89% of the vote counted, Mr Hernández led by 0.8 percentage points.

If the electoral tribunal (TSE) proclaims him the winner, that will not settle the matter. Mr Nasralla told The Economist there will be protests. The tension evokes the mood after a coup in 2009 against then-president Manuel Zelaya, after he tried to scrap presidential term limits. He now backs Mr Nasralla. University classes have been cancelled, probably to keep Mr Nasralla’s young supporters at home. On the night of November 29th police fired tear gas at rock-throwing protesters near a building where ballots were stored, and it was evacuated; the TSE suspended counting after it said its system had crashed.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Those who believe that Mr Hernández’s National Party is trying to steal the election have grounds for suspicion. Before the vote, The Economist obtained a tape of what appears to be a training session for party members who would man polling stations. In it, the trainer instructs the workers how to carry out “Plan B”, a set of apparently fraudulent “strategies” that includes filling in leftover ballots, spoiling ballots and damaging barcodes on tally sheets if they record a majority for opposition parties. The purpose of this technique, says the government employee leading the session, is to delay inclusion of tally sheets favouring the opposition in the preliminary count. As Mr Hernández pulled into the lead on November 29th, opposition supporters consulting the TSE’s website claimed that nearly all tally sheets excluded from the count favoured Mr Nasralla.

Plan B could determine the outcome of the election, though it is not certain it will. After a test of the vote-counting system two weeks before the election the boss of the TSE declared that “the system has worked very well”. But no good explanation exists for the delay in results, nor the sudden reversal of Mr Nasralla’s lead.

Few expected Mr Nasralla, a telegenic sports broadcaster, to come as close to victory as he has. He was so short of cash that he continued presenting his weekly sports show during the campaign to stay visible. Yet he attracted voters angry about Mr Hernández’s bid for re-election, which was waved through by a pliant supreme court in 2015. Mr Nasralla’s anti-corruption message also resonated with voters.

He has long insisted that the vote would be rigged. “What we have in Honduras is a dictatorship,” he said before the election. He added to the confusion on November 29th by agreeing with Mr Hernández that both would accept the results of the TSE’s count, then reneging hours later. If the TSE does declare Mr Hernández the winner, Mr Nasralla will have three weeks to appeal to a court that he says “belongs” to the president. More twists await.

See more: Is Honduras’s ruling party planning to rig an election?WHEN it is finished, America’s imposing new embassy in Lebanon will be its second-biggest in the world. Yet it was France, not America, that stepped in to resolve Lebanon’s latest political crisis. Speaking from the Saudi capital, Riyadh, on November 4th, Saad Hariri, the Lebanese prime minister, abruptly announced his resignation. What followed was a bizarre two-week saga in which he seemed to be under house arrest in the kingdom. Though America’s State Department criticised the move, it fell to France to negotiate Mr Hariri’s return to Beirut. He has since suspended his resignation.

Nearly a year into his presidency, Donald Trump’s Middle East policy could best be characterised as one of neglect and confusion. His term coincides with a period of radical change in Saudi Arabia. King Salman and his son, Muhammad, the all-powerful crown prince, have abandoned the Al Sauds’ plodding caution in favour of a more aggressive foreign policy. Their actions have unsettled friends and neighbours. Even Israeli diplomats, no fans of Mr Hariri, use words like “reckless” to describe the Saudis’ pressure tactics in Lebanon, which risked upsetting its delicate sectarian balance.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Yet the Saudis have found a receptive audience in the White House, particularly in Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law. Team Trump thinks that it has helped to kindle the liberalising economic, social and religious reforms of Prince Muhammad. Mr Trump has not evinced any concern about the Saudi-led war in Yemen that has, with American support, laid waste to the region’s poorest country (see Briefing). He has enthusiastically praised a Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, and a recent wave of anti-corruption arrests in the kingdom, even though American diplomats have deep doubts about both policies.

Many Syrians cheered in April when America bombed a Syrian air base in response to a chemical attack in Idlib province. Since then Mr Trump seems to have lost interest. Russia and Iran have filled the vacuum, helping Syria’s president, Bashar al-Assad, to reconquer lost territories. Vladimir Putin, Russia’s president, gave Mr Assad a warm welcome in Sochi last month, and then hosted the presidents of Iran and Turkey, both of whom support Mr Assad’s continued rule.

As The Economist went to press, Syrians were gathered in Geneva for another round of UN-backed peace talks. The opposition delegation is now stacked with figures willing to leave Mr Assad in power, a shift engineered by the Saudis. Under Saudi pressure Riyad Hijab, a former Syrian prime minister and a resolute critic of the regime, has resigned as head of an opposition umbrella group. The Saudis may be hoping, implausibly, to split Russia from Iran. America, which has long demanded Mr Assad’s departure, said nothing.

Other allies feel similarly confused. Mr Trump is cutting military aid to the Syrian Democratic Forces, a Kurdish-led militia that paid a heavy price fighting the jihadists of Islamic State. Asked whether America would name a special envoy to mediate a dispute between Iraq’s Kurds and the central government in Baghdad, the State Department demurred. “They can probably work it out on their own,” a spokeswoman said. Even Binyamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, has been disappointed. He is unhappy with the latest “de-escalation” agreement in southern Syria, negotiated by America and Russia, which allows Iranian-backed militias within 5km of his northern border. Despite warm contacts with the Trump administration, Jordan, too, feels left in the lurch by American plans to halt financial aid to Arab rebels in southern Syria next month.

Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, the Egyptian president, met Mr Trump during the campaign, and was the first foreign leader to congratulate him on his victory. But he was stunned in August when America slashed $100m in aid to Egypt, and withheld another $195m until it saw “progress on democracy”. The move also astonished American diplomats in Cairo. “I had to explain this to my Egyptian counterparts the next morning, and I had no guidance from Washington on why we did it,” says one.

Spread the blame around

Mr Trump does not deserve all the blame for meek and muddled American policy. Barack Obama, though he called for Mr Assad’s removal, did little to support the Syrian opposition. The war in Yemen started on his watch, too. And, to be fair, Mr Trump is engaged in one area: the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. After much shuttle diplomacy by Jason Greenblatt, his special envoy, the president is preparing to unveil a peace plan in early 2018.

This is a rite of passage for American presidents. The last three tried, and failed. There is no reason to think Mr Trump will succeed, either. Israel is still led by a far-right coalition loth to make concessions, and the divided Palestinians by a government that lost its legitimacy years ago. But the Saudis have egged him on, knowing that the president is eager to strike what he calls “the ultimate deal”. By supporting Mr Trump’s efforts in Jerusalem, they hope to win a free hand in Yemen and elsewhere.

Mr Trump never misses a chance to criticise his predecessor. Yet he is repeating some of his mistakes. Mr Obama was accused of pursuing a nuclear agreement with Iran at all costs, and ignoring Iran’s meddling in Syria and Iraq. Now Mr Trump seems obsessed with reneging on the deal, which would weaken the curbs on Iran’s ability to make a nuclear bomb, and is doing little (apart from a few more sanctions) to contain Iranian influence.

He is enabling autocrats in Egypt, and losing the confidence of close allies, such as Israel and Jordan. Meanwhile the Saudis are free to pursue destabilising policies, and the future of Syria is largely in Russian and Iranian hands. “This is not a time for the US to be absent,” says another Western diplomat. “We need some supervision.”ON NOVEMBER 25th The Economist published an article suggesting that Honduras’s ruling party may have had plans to distort the results of a general election to be held the next day. Here we present excerpts and transcripts from a tape of what appears to be a training session for National Party poll workers, on which the article was based. The Economist received the recording from a participant, who also described what was happening in the room at the time. Our descriptions of the gestures of the woman leading the session are based on that testimony. We have distorted her voice.

With roughly 75% of ballots counted, Salvador Nasralla of the opposition Libre party leads the presidential race by less than one percentage point. Both he and the incumbent, Juan Orlando Hernández of the National Party, are claiming victory.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Español

El 25 de noviembre The Economist publicó un artículo sugiriendo que el partido gobernante de Honduras podía haber tenido planes para distorsionar los resultados de elecciones generales programados para el siguiente día. Aquí presentamos extractos y transcripciones del audio sobre lo cual se basaba el artículo, que parece ser una capacitación para representantes de mesas electorales del Partido Nacional. The Economist recibió la grabación de un participante, quien también describió lo que estaba pasando en la sala simultáneamente. Nuestras descripciones de los gestos de la mujer dirigiendo la capacitación son basadas en ese testimonio. Hemos distorsionado su voz.

Con aproximadamente 75% de las actas electorales contadas, Salvador Nasralla del partido de oposición Libre tiene una ventaja de menos de un punto porcentual en la elección presidencial. Tanto él como el actual presidente, Juan Orlando Hernández del Partido Nacional, están cantando victoria.

FIRST RECORDING (click through to listen)

English translation

I’m at the table and I’m governing the table. I have the leading voice and the guy from Libre who was providing the strongest opposition has left. He left because he said, “I don’t want to be here anymore, I’m out of here, this is [National Party territory],” and he left because they paid him to work at the station and he took his money and he left. So I have the opportunity to fill out 40 ballots. But careful, if I don’t mark them [properly] and just throw them in the ballot box like this, I didn’t do anything. I marked them, look, JOH [for Juan Orlando Hernández], JOH, JOH, JOH, I marked them quickly. But if I just throw them in, they’re not good for anything.

Español

Y estoy en la mesa y yo voy gobernando la mesa. Yo tengo la voz cantante, y ya se fue él de Libre que estaba haciendo la oposición fuerte. Ese se fue porque dijo “Ya no quiero estar aquí, ya me voy, esa zona es cachureca,” y él se fue porque a él le pagaron por estar en la mesa y agarró el dinero. Y se fue. Y yo tengo la oportunidad de marcar 40 votos. Pero si ojo, no los marco, y los echo en la urna así, yo nada hice. Yo los marqué, va, JOH [por Juan Orlando Hernández], JOH, JOH, JOH, rápido los marqué, pero si yo los echo a la urna así, esos no sirven.

SECOND RECORDING (click through to listen)

English translation

Recognisng the enemy. See if you can put the enemy to sleep. If the enemy said, “Hey!” Here I am at the table and I see that the enemy is a tiger, I try to keep him at a distance in order to do what I need to do. And if he’s smart, he’s not going to let me. But if he came [inaudible] he’s going to let me. Too bad for him if he lets me do everything I need to do. You can do it, too. Are you guys understanding, are you…? That’s the formula. You have a pencil, the ballot comes before you, look [inaudible], just like that, in the morning, starting at seven in the morning. And if they’re counting the votes to fill out the tally sheet you can add votes for legislators from your party, you put them as long as the secretary is [on our side]. But if the secretary is from the opposition and you fell asleep, what’s he going to do? He’s going to do the opposite of what we need to do. That’s why we can’t arrive sleepy. If you fell asleep and left me, I see that there are 23 votes for the Liberal party, and I add another. Because with 24 I’ve annulled that vote [there would then be more votes than seats]. They can do the same thing. We have this ballot with 23 marks but it’s for Libre, and with another mark the vote is wasted. So if we have [our own votes] with 22, 23 marks, leave them like that. With 21 marks leave them like that, because 21 marks aren’t too many. But let’s reiterate that if the vote is for their line, you can put another X, another—whatever form [the voter] has used, if the ballot is with an X, you put an X--and why should it matter if we’re all at the table. Not everyone is going to arrive with your skill and your strategies. There are people who go to the polling stations because they’re being paid for it. We’re not being paid. There are people who work at the polling stations because they’ve been promised something that they won’t be given. So these are the strategies I want you to understand. If there are votes we need to take care of, they’re our votes. If there are votes we can damage, it’s when I’m with the Alliance [Libre] votes and the Liberal votes, I put another “X” and say, “No, it’s null, look there are 24,” and who is going to... If I knew how to do it, if I’ve been smart and dabbed my finger in ink when I wasn’t voting. If I showed up knowing what I have to do. If they pick me to go to a polling station I’m going to do my work. When it’s possible. When you identify the enemy. When the enemy [inaudible]. You have to relax the enemy.

Español

Conociendo al enemigo. Ver si usted ya pudo dormir al enemigo. Si el enemigo le dijo, “Fijate!” Aquí estoy en una mesa y yo digo que él de libre es tigre, yo trato de tenerlo largo de mí para yo poder hacer lo que tengo que hacer. Y él si es listo, no me va a dejar, pero si llegó [inaudible] me va a dejar. Pobre de él si a mí me deja hacer todo lo que yo tenga que hacer. Igual usted puede hacerlo. ¿Están entendiendo, están…? Esa es la fórmula. Usted tiene un lápiz, y ese voto le llega, mire [inaudible], de tanta forma porque en la mañana, ya, eso a las siete de la madrugada. Y igual si están cantando los votos para llenar el acta usted puede poner votos a diputados de su partido, usted le pone si el secretario tiene voz cantante. Pero si el secretario es de la oposición y usted se durmió, qué va a hacer aquél? Va a hacer lo contrario que debemos de hacer. Entonces porque no tenemos que llegar dormidos. Si usted se durmió y me dejó a mí, me aseguro que hay 23 marcas para el partido Liberal, pero yo le pongo otra. Porque ya con 24 yo le anulé ese voto [así habría mas votos que puestos]. Igual pueden hacer ellos. Tenemos ese voto con 23 marcas pero es de Libre, con una marca de clave se echó el voto. [Voz: “Está bueno. Sí.”] Yo le pongo una marca más a eso y me echo el voto. Entonces si tenemos con 22, 23 marcas, dejémoslo así. Con 21 marcas dejémoslo así, que esas 21 marcas no suman. Reiteramos que una línea llevan ellos, usted puede ponerle otra “X,” otro--normalmente de la misma forma, si es voto con X, usted puede hacerle una “X,” y qué me alegra si en la mesa estamos de la mesa. Y no todos van a llegar con la habilidad y las estrategias suyas. Hay personas que van a ir a mesa porque les van a pagar. Nosotros no nos pagan. Hay personas que van a ir a mesa porque les han prometido algo que no les van a cumplir. Entonces estas son las estrategias que yo quiero que ustedes entiendan. Que si hay votos que hay que cuidarlos son los nuestros y si hay votos que podemos dañarlos, yo estando con los votos de la alianza [Libre], votos de Liberal, yo le pongo otra “X” y le digo, “No, si está nulo, mirá que son 24,” y quién me... Si lo supe hacer, si he sido lista y me mancho mi dedo cuando yo no tenga que votar. Pero si yo llegué a poner yo ya sé lo que voy a hacer. Si me quieren para hacer a mesa voy a hacer mi trabajo. Cuando se puede. Cuando usted identifique al enemigo. Cuando el enemigo [inaudible]. Usted, relájese al enemigo.

THIRD RECORDING (click through to listen)

English translation

I lost the polling station and I did my best work and there’s nothing I can do about it. But now we go to the plan. When we lose a polling station, pay attention to the tally sheets. The tally sheets have that bar code. But if you move that bar code a little bit, ruin it a little bit, touch it roughly, that bar code gets ruined. I’m telling you because we tested this. If I lost the polling station, why do I care if the tally sheet arrives at the tribunal? So when you see that you’ve lost the polling station, because anything can happen, here’s how you [demonstrates with hands]. So they have to give the tally sheet to me to sign because I am a member of the polling station. They know I have to sign. When they give me the sheet, I say, “Excuse me, I’m going to make sure they did it right.” Then, look, [demonstrates with hands] it’s like a [inaudible] that bar code, if you ruin it that’s information that’s not going to arrive to the tribunal.

A different case: I won the polling station, immediately I apply the seal, the adhesive tape, because with the adhesive tape and this ruler I can [demonstrates with hands]. So you have to be careful, stations you’ve won is information you pass along [quickly]. Does everyone understand? Be careful that you don’t sign a sheet when you have lost a polling station and be extra careful with that one. In the moment you’re signing it, look for the barcode, and it’s going to end up damaged, the part we demonstrated was with a bit of green [ink]. I’m not sure what colour it’ll be. But you use your finger to scratch it. They are going to be practising too, so be smart. The sheet won’t go off until you sign it. So: sheets you win, put [the seal] immediately. From the bottom to the top, because we’re on the bottom. Make sure it’s applied well and take care of it.

Español

Perdí la mesa y yo hice mi buen trabajo y ahí no puedo hacer nada. Pero ya vamos para el plan. Desde que nosotros perdemos una mesa, ojo con las actas. Las actas tienen ese código de barra. Pero si ese código de barra usted medio los mueve, medio lo arruina, medio lo toca groseramente, te arruina ese código de barra. Y se lo digo yo que hicimos la prueba. Como yo perdí la mesa ¿qué me importa que esos datos no lleguen a sumar al Tribunal? Entonces usted cuando mire que pierde la mesa porque como se puede dar de todo y como es para, para, para [hace una demostración con las manos]. Entonces lo que, a mí me tienen que poner a firmar el acta porque soy miembro de la mesa. Saben que la tengo que firmar. En lo que me dan el acta, yo “Permítame, yo voy a leer a ver si lo hicieron bien.” Ahí miren [hace una demostración con las manos], es como un [inaudible] ese código de barra, ustedes lo arruinaron y son datos que no van a llegar al Tribunal.

Diferente forma: gané la mesa yo, inmediatamente le pongo el sello, la cinta adhesiva, porque con la cinta adhesiva ya puedo hacer y con esa regla tengo para [hace una demostración con una regla]. Igual tienen que cuidar, mesas que se ganen, datos que ustedes pasan así. Están entendiendo? Cuidadito, usted me firma un acta y perdió la mesa y anda cuidando aquella. En el momento que usted la firme, usted busque el código de barra, ahí va a salir dañada la parte que hicimos fue con un verdecito [tinta]. No sé qué color va a salir. Pero con que usted le pase la uña ellos van a estar practicando pero usted también sea inteligente esa acta no se va a ir sin que usted la firme. Entonces usted, actas que ganen, póngale inmediatamente. De abajo para arriba, porque nosotros estamos abajo, que quede bien puesta y cuídala.

See more: Is Honduras’s ruling party planning to rig an election?THE quest has failed many times. The past 20 years have seen around 50 attempts to pass laws in different Australian states to allow doctors to help terminally ill people end their lives. All have suffered defeat. But on November 29th Victoria finally made history, when its parliament passed Australia’s first state law to legalise doctor-assisted dying.

The law, which will take effect in 2019, allows people with an advanced, incurable illness to request “assisted dying” if their suffering cannot be relieved “in a manner that the person considers tolerable”. Patients must make three successive requests for such help; doctors are banned from initiating discussion of it as an option. The original bill had proposed limiting eligibility to those who were expected to live no more than a year. Victoria’s lawmakers reduced that to six months, with a few exceptions.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Most earlier attempts to legalise assisted dying were private members’ bills, but the state government proposed this one. Brian Owler, a neurosurgeon advising the government, believes this was crucial to its success. Daniel Andrews, Victoria’s premier, and Jill Hennessy, its health minister, both said that seeing a parent suffer from a debilitating illness had led them to support the law.

Assisted dying is legal only in Colombia, Canada, a few European countries and some American states. Mr Andrews says the new law is the most conservative in the world. Yet it has rankled some other members of his party, Labor. Paul Keating, a former Labor prime minister, says it “stands for everything a truly civil society should stand against”.

It has divided doctors, too. Michael Gannon, head of the Australian Medical Association, a lobby group, says Victoria’s parliament has “changed one of the fundamentals of medical ethics”. Doctors are “concerned about where it might lead”. Mr Owler retorts: “It’s not about doctors. It’s about people who are suffering and dying.” Andrew McGee, a health-law specialist at Queensland University of Technology, thinks Victoria’s law prevailed because the government had embarked earlier on a “thorough” public inquiry that reassured people “this type of regime can succeed.”

Australia has six states and two self-governing territories. The Northern Territory legalised assisted dying 21 years ago. But the national government can overturn territorial legislation, and did so on that occasion within a year. It has no such power over state laws, however. Malcolm Turnbull, Australia’s prime minister, who leads the right-wing Liberal Party, says he would not have voted for Victoria’s law. But Mr Owler is confident it will become a “blueprint” for change elsewhere in Australia.AMERICA, Britain and France fired a barrage of missiles at targets inside Syria on April 14th. The early-morning strikes aimed to punish the regime of Bashar al-Assad for a suspected chemical-weapons attack that killed dozens of people in the city of Douma a week earlier. More than 100 cruise missiles, launched from warplanes and gunboats, struck three Syrian facilities: a scientific research centre used to produce chemical weapons near the capital of Damascus and two military bases further north.

American officials and their European allies were careful to characterise the attack as a one-off strike designed to deter Mr Assad from using chemical weapons again. America’s defence secretary, Jim Mattis, who urged caution in the lead-up to the attack, said: “We were not out to expand this; we were very precise and proportionate.” No more attacks are planned, said Mr Mattis, unless Mr Assad uses chemical weapons again. “This is not about intervening in a civil war. It is not about regime change,” said Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Pentagon officials said the missiles first struck a scientific research centre near Damascus that develops, produces and tests chemical and biological weapons. The other two facilities targeted in the strikes are located west of the city of Homs (see map). One produces sarin gas and the other is part of a military command post, the officials said. Syrian state television claimed some of the missiles were shot down by the government’s air defence systems. Still, “a large part of [Syria’s] chemical arsenal has been destroyed," Jean-Yves Le Drian, France’s foreign minister, told French television.

The attack was twice as big as one launched by America last year, which failed to deter Mr Assad. The earlier strike, involving 59 cruise missiles, was in response to a chemical attack on the town of Khan Sheikhoun in Idlib province. The target, a Syrian air base, was back operating a day later and Mr Assad has launched several suspected chemical attacks since then.

Whether or not Mr Assad is deterred by the latest strike—and warnings of more to come if he continues gassing his people—it will do little to alter the the course of Syria’s civil war. Aided by Iran and Russia, Mr Assad has been winning for some time. Rebels control only a few pockets of territory and are largely cut off from international support. As the missiles hit their targets and anti-aircraft guns lit up the sky, hundreds of people took to the streets of Damascus to protest the strike. After the bombing stopped the Syrian presidency posted on Twitter a video of Mr Assad, dressed in suit and tie, confidently strolling into work. “The morning of resilience,” read the caption beneath.

When announcing the attack, President Donald Trump tried to shame Iran and Russia into stopping Mr Assad from using poison gas again. “To Iran and to Russia I ask: What kind of a nation wants to be associated with the mass murder of innocent men, women and children?” said Mr Trump. Russia, in turn, threatened to respond. “We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences,” said Anatoly Antonov, the ambassador to the United States, in a statement. But neither Russia nor Iran appears to have lost men or military kit in the strike. American and French officials say they warned Russia in advance.

Mr Trump’s desire to make good on his promise to punish the “crimes of a monster” appear to have stalled his plans to pull America out of Syria. About 2,000 American troops are based in the north-east of the country, where they fight alongside a Kurdish-led force against what is left of the Islamic State jihadist group. “We look forward to the day when we can bring our warriors home,” said Mr Trump, while announcing the attack. But his advisers want America to stay in Syria. For this administration, punishing Mr Assad is likely to prove easier than devising a coherent Syria policy.THE impact of technology on the economy is one of the most-debated issues of the moment, whether it is the potential for automation to cause unemployment, boost long-term productivity, or widen inequality. A good deal of the annual Barclays Equity-Gilt Study, published yesterday, was devoted to the subject. But one section caught my eye; the idea that technological change was making GDP a less useful measure.

The report says that

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













When GDP was first introduced, manufacturing accounted for a large share of the core advanced economies, and the (system of national accounts) was designed primarily to measure physical production.

But the modern economy is dominated by services and

Services cover a wide range of activities and are often customised, making their basic unit of production, as well as differences in quality and changes over time, hard to define

Furthermore, the report points out that

Digitised goods or services are often free: and without an observable market price, the (system of national accounts), by definition, excludes them entirely from GDP. But just because the consumption of a digital product does not involve a monetary transaction does not automatically mean that it is of zero value to the consumer. Thus the current treatment of digital products within the (system of national accounts) systematically underestimates the value generated by the digital economy.

This may be true. My question is how new this is. Past technological innovations have enormously boosted human welfare. But were those benefits reflected in a narrow GDP measure?

My great-aunt Amy lived in a one-up, one-down (a house with two floors and just two rooms) in a small Yorkshire town in the 1960s. That meant she had to visit an outside toilet, whatever the weather, or time of day.¹ People today have indoor plumbing. Is that benefit fully reflected in GDP in the form of the cost of toilet installation? It seems unlikely.² Great Aunt Amy also had no fridge so had to trek down cobbled streets to get her shopping every day, whatever the weather. Go back further in time and women like Amy would have had to collect the water for the house, for cooking and washing, and the firewood for heating. A third of them would have died in childbirth and they would have lost a lot of children in infancy to disease. After the 1960s, thanks to the pill and contraception, women had more control over their reproductive rights. And so on.

We are so used to these benefits that we may not fully appreciate them.³ But we would if they were gone. And I think they would be missed more greatly than the ability to check our e-mails, listen to our favourite music, or share details of our lives on Facebook. And smartphones may conceivably be part of the productivity problem because they are so distracting: users say they spend two hours a day on social networks and five hours on their smartphones. Which of us does not spend part of the working day getting sucked into Twitter debates, watching Youtube videos and the like? This is time spent not working. Indeed, there may come a point when employers start monitoring our online activity to crack down on this problem. This loss of freedom and privacy will not be measured as a loss in GDP (it may be a gain) but it will be seen as a loss of welfare.

GDP has long had its critics. It does not measure the unpaid contribution of women in the form of housework, for example. If a mob smashes all the windows in the city centre, GDP goes up when the glaziers replace the glass. We have alternative measures of welfare: longevity (and child mortality) are basic measures, and we can add human height (as an indicator of nutrition), healthy life expectancy (how old are you before infirmity takes over?) and so on. These have been heading in the right direction, dramatically so in some parts of the developing world.

But back to the Barclays study. On the subject of automation and jobs, the report argues that, initially, parts of our jobs get automated, rather than the whole thing. Take long-distance trucking. The introduction of rear-view cameras, automatic braking, cruise control etc. has made the task easier, and thus lower skilled. In nominal terms, the average salary of a trucker has grown from $38,000 in 1980 to just $46,000 today, well below inflation. So automation has increased the pool of workers who can do a given task, and thus depressed real wage growth. Technology also creates new jobs—app developers for iPhones, content moderators on websites and so on.

As for productivity, it may be too early to see the full benefits. Thomas Edison and others pioneered the electricity industry in the 1880s but more than half of US homes did not get electricity until 1925. Factories needed to be redesigned to take advantage of electrification (the old sites relied on a single steam-driven engine and were laid out accordingly). The best decade for productivity growth in the US was the 1950s, an era with few breakthroughs; technologies developed before the war were finally spreading. So it is possible that artificial intelligence, 3-D printing and the like may yet boost the growth rate and allow us to overcome the problem of demography (an ageing population means fewer workers).Our Leadership Innovation in the Workforce course provides experienced managers with effective, creative, and innovative leadership techniques to better manage the workforce. This two-day program transcends basic leadership education through its in-depth exploration of leadership competencies, multigenerational management, effective delegation, motivated innovation, and more.

Participants will assess their leadership skills and discover areas for both personal growth. After the program, they will be able to implement new tactics into their leadership roles at their organization.One of the leading Finance certifications, the CFP® designation is the recognized standard for establishing professional credibility within the field of financial planning. The CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER Professional Certificate Program at Florida Atlantic University is registered with the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc.(CFP Board). As a CFP Board-Registered Program, our courses satisfy the CFP Board’s education requirement, allowing an individual to sit for the CFP® Certification Examination.

An overview of the basic principles and laws of income taxation for individuals, employees, and business owners are covered. Topics include: income tax calculations for individuals and business, compliance, and accounting methods, taxation of trusts and estates, basis, depreciation, sale of assets, alternative minimum tax, charitable contributions, and tax management.

Instructor-led by qualified CFP® certified professors

A blended-learning approach which includes both in-class review, discussions, online assignments and practice questions.

Incorporate in-class, online and independent study activities.

Follows the CFP Board’s recommended curriculum which weights topics according to exam relevance

Florida Atlantic University does not certify individuals to use the CFP®, CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER and federally registered CFP (with flame logo) certification marks. CFP certification is granted only by Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc. to those persons who, in addition to completing an educational requirement such as this CFP Board-Registered Program, have met its ethics, experience and examination requirements. Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards Inc. owns the certification marks CFP®, CERTIFIED FINANCIAL PLANNER and federally registered CFP (with flame logo), which it awards to individuals who successfully complete initial and ongoing certification requirements.Master a proven framework for building and financing new ventures, make your entrepreneurial dreams a reality, and speak the language of the start-up world.

Entrepreneurship Essentials introduces you to the entrepreneurial journey, from finding an idea, to gaining traction in the marketplace, to raising capital for your venture. You will learn an overarching framework—People, Opportunity, Context, Deal—to evaluate opportunities, manage start-ups, and finance ventures. This framework has been taught to thousands of Harvard Business School MBA students over the past 30 years.

Entrepreneurship Essentials explains how entrepreneurs run structured experiments to validate ideas and refine business strategy. You will dive deep into the numbers behind how entrepreneurs and their investors make financial decisions to create value and grow their operations. Whether you are a current or aspiring entrepreneur, or someone who is looking to gain an understanding of how businesses are built, you will walk away from Entrepreneurship Essentials with the ability to:This course puts the critical pieces of the strategy puzzle together in a straightforward way that increases process understanding and the ability to implement a set of proven analytic and design tools. Case studies and participants’ own organizational examples are used to illustrate and deepen the lessons.

As a manager, your organization’s success depends on effective strategic leadership. This course is designed to help you understand the challenges and opportunities that define the moment, what needs to be done, and how to mobilize people and resources with purpose and urgency.

The workshop is divided into the following three segments:Brent A. Hafele, M.A., is passionate about helping nonprofits become more vibrant and sustainable. Brent provides counsel on a variety of nonprofit leadership areas, including capital campaigns, major gift development, strategic planning, nonprofit leadership, board/governance relations, and vibrancy planning.

Brent mastered the ins and outs of nonprofit operations by serving as executive director at the Chippewa Valley Free Clinic and as development director at Hope Gospel Mission, where he successfully led a capital campaign to open a women’s shelter. In 2008, he founded his successful consulting practice, NewDay Nonprofit Solutions. As a consultant, Brent has challenged and empowered a wide range of Christian and secular agencies throughout North America. In 2016, NewDay merged into Dickerson, Bakker & Associates, where Brent joined the group as Vice President of Client Services.

In addition to his consulting work, he is a popular speaker at national, regional, and local conferences on nonprofit leadership and fundraising. Brent is also a faculty member of the University of St. Thomas’s Fundraising Certificate Series, where he teaches courses on capital campaigns and nonprofit marketing. He earned an M.A. in Philanthropy and Development from Saint Mary’s University of Minnesota. Brent resides in Eau Claire, WI, with his wife Jennifer, sons Evan and Micah, and daughter Rachel.Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to Ivey Business School from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.Designed in cooperation with the Municipal Advisory Council of Municipal Executives, this program provides you with the knowledge and authority needed to lead people, teams and departments to a new level of excellence.

Analyze and improve your leadership strengths using a 360-degree assessment to achieve your management goals and lead your organization to unprecedented success. Review current theory, research and practices to develop the coaching and mentoring skills required to achieve peak performance.

This course is a module of the Masters Certificate in Municipal Leadership program. Depending on your needs, you can take this course as a stand-alone program, working towards the full Masters Certificate if all modules are completed within three (3) years or register for full certificate program and save on your tuition.Jill’s expertise lies in Media, Keynotes, Corporate Leadership and CEO’s, for audiences and clients ranging from McDonald’s & Coca- Cola, Young Presidents Organization, ongoing segment as TV5 Life & Wellness Expert, Professional & Not for Profit Organizations from Junior League, BOMA and Universities. Her career as an international keynote speaker has spanned 30+ years and has spent 16+ years a wellness executive coach.

Jill has her M.A. in Leadership and B.S. in Occupational Therapy and holds certifications from the Chopra Institute and Martha Beck Institute in meditation and executive coaching. She is presently pursuing her training in Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction at UCSD’s Center for Mindfulness.

Having worked with people from all socioeconomic levels, Jill has an uncommon ability to connect and relate to everyone she encounters. Her unique combination of academia and real life adventures from marathons, triathlons, climbing Kilimanjaro, working with Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity in Calcutta and Ethiopia and building homes for the impoverished in Tijuana and around the world, set her apart with inspiring stories that bring her presentations to life. Jill is an entrepreneur and mom of two amazing kids.Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to HEC Montreal from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.Professor Paul Argenti has taught management, corporate responsibility, and corporate communication starting in 1977 at the Harvard Business School, from 1979 to 1981 at the Columbia Business School, and since 1981 as a faculty member at the Tuck School. He has also taught as a visiting professor at the International University of Japan, Helsinki School of Economics, Erasmus University in the Netherlands, London Business School, and Singapore Management University. He currently serves as Faculty Director for Tuck’s Leadership and Strategic Impact and Brand and Reputation programs, as well as Tuck’s custom programs for Novartis and Hitachi Data Systems.

Professor Argenti’s textbook, Corporate Communication (sixth edition) was recently published through McGraw-Hill/Irwin. He is also completing work on the first edition of a seminal work entitled Corporate Responsibility for McGraw-Hill, which focuses on corporate values, shared value, corporate character, and the purpose of the corporation in modern society. Professor Argenti co-authored (with Courtney Barnes) Digital Strategies for Powerful Corporate Communication (2009, McGraw-Hill). Some of his other books include Strategic Corporate Communication (2007, McGraw-Hill), The Power of Corporate Communication (co-authored with UCLA’s Janis Forman, published by McGraw-Hill), and The Fast Forward MBA Pocket Reference (several editions), released through Wiley.

Professor Argenti has written and edited numerous articles for academic publications and practitioner journals such as Harvard Business Review, California Management Review, and MIT Sloan Management Review. He also blogs regularly for Harvard Business Review, The Washington Post, and U.S. News & World Report and appears frequently on radio (NPR) and television (CNBC) commenting on topics related to communications, reputation, and corporate responsibility.

Professor Argenti is a Fulbright Scholar and a winner of the Pathfinder Award in 2007 from the Institute for Public Relations for the excellence of his research over a long career. He serves on the Board of Trustees for the Arthur W. Page Society and the Ethisphere Institute. He also serves on advisory boards to CEOs for a variety of global companies. Finally, he has consulted and run training programs for hundreds of companies including General Electric, ING, Mitsui, Novartis, and Goldman Sachs.This intense program, tailored to the Middle East context, will equip you with a set of practical, simple, but powerful tools and organizing frameworks to turn strategy into action and get results. By the end of the program, you will understand how to:

You are a senior manager or leader who has a role in or is contributing to executing your company’s strategy, and you need to have the skills and knowledge necessary to turn strategy into actions that will achieve results for your organization.

Research has shown that even well thought-through strategies supported by major communication efforts will not have an impact unless they undergo a disciplined execution process involving the company’s distributed leaders.

As a participant on this program you are one of those distributed leaders who are crucial to effective execution. You will leave with a method for aligning your team with the strategy, coordinating with colleagues and defining the space you need to adapt your actions as the situation evolves.

When you return to your organization, you will be able to put these methods into action, embed them in your part of the organization and become more effective at leading your team and working with colleagues. As you begin using your new skills, your increased personal effectiveness will have an impact on others and ultimately contribute to the performance of the organization as a whole.With this program, you’ll learn the scope of digital marketing before diving deep into pay per click training to make sure the ads you're paying for are bringing a return. You’ll gain a comprehensive, cross-discipline approach to designing, building, and maintaining campaigns.

Once you learn how to bring users visit your site, you will advance to conversion training to learn how to keep them engaged and how to compel them to convert. You’ll enjoy a comprehensive overview with real examples of what works, what doesn't, and what steps you can take to test your ideas.

When you share the appropriate message with your audience and help your audience take the right actions, you’re on the track to becoming a huge asset for any company utilizing online advertising.Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to HEC Montreal from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.This twelve-week business analyst course builds on the critical concepts that were learned in the Essentials course. You’ll strengthen previously developed skills and expand your knowledge of the techniques necessary to become an effective business analyst. You’ll explore advanced topics in quality management, testing, verification and validation. And you’ll use your new skills immediately, on the job.

Exciting new industry experts, examples and case studies, as well as hundreds of new graphics, animated exercises and interactive features to maximize your learning experience!

Continual support of the latest version of BABOK® 3.0 including test prep questions to prepare you for the CBAP® and CCBA™ certifications.

What You’ll Study



Strategic Business Analysis

Defining the Business Problem and Requirements

Assessing Organizational Gaps

Developing a Business Case

Business Rules and Requirements Reuse

BA as Strategist

Facilitation to Induce Creativity

Why Creativity?

From Business Need to Creative Solution

Generating Creative Ideas

Analyzing, Refining and Evolving Ideas

Decide, Innovate!

Business Analyst as Creative Leader and Innovative Team Leader

The Role of the BA in Quality and Requirements Management

Quality Basics

How Quality Fits Into Requirements and Analysis

Requirements Management and the CMMI

Assessing the Solution and Organizational Readiness

Developing Transition Requirements

Solution Validation and Ongoing Quality

Requirement Changes Throughout the Project

Timeboxing – Limit Scope and Increase Quality

Using Traceability

Lean and Six Sigma for Business Analysts

Introduction to Lean and Six Sigma

What is Lean and Six Sigma?

Lean Tools and the War on Waste

Key Lean Foundation Concepts

The Principles of 5S

Error Proofing, Kaizen, Changeover Reduction

Value Stream Mapping

The DMAIC Model and Tollgate Reviews

Six Sigma Tools and the War on Defects

QFD, FMEA, and SIPOC

Flow Chart, Pareto Chart and Fishbone Diagrams

Variation and Histograms

New Quality Management Tools

Testing Concepts for the Business AnalystThis twelve-week business analyst course builds on the critical concepts that were learned in the Essentials course. You’ll strengthen previously developed skills and expand your knowledge of the techniques necessary to become an effective business analyst. You’ll explore advanced topics in quality management, testing, verification and validation. And you’ll use your new skills immediately, on the job.

Exciting new industry experts, examples and case studies, as well as hundreds of new graphics, animated exercises and interactive features to maximize your learning experience!

Continual support of the latest version of BABOK® 3.0 including test prep questions to prepare you for the CBAP® and CCBA™ certifications.

What You’ll Study



Strategic Business Analysis

Defining the Business Problem and Requirements

Assessing Organizational Gaps

Developing a Business Case

Business Rules and Requirements Reuse

BA as Strategist

Facilitation to Induce Creativity

Why Creativity?

From Business Need to Creative Solution

Generating Creative Ideas

Analyzing, Refining and Evolving Ideas

Decide, Innovate!

Business Analyst as Creative Leader and Innovative Team Leader

The Role of the BA in Quality and Requirements Management

Quality Basics

How Quality Fits Into Requirements and Analysis

Requirements Management and the CMMI

Assessing the Solution and Organizational Readiness

Developing Transition Requirements

Solution Validation and Ongoing Quality

Requirement Changes Throughout the Project

Timeboxing – Limit Scope and Increase Quality

Using Traceability

Lean and Six Sigma for Business Analysts

Introduction to Lean and Six Sigma

What is Lean and Six Sigma?

Lean Tools and the War on Waste

Key Lean Foundation Concepts

The Principles of 5S

Error Proofing, Kaizen, Changeover Reduction

Value Stream Mapping

The DMAIC Model and Tollgate Reviews

Six Sigma Tools and the War on Defects

QFD, FMEA, and SIPOC

Flow Chart, Pareto Chart and Fishbone Diagrams

Variation and Histograms

New Quality Management Tools

Testing Concepts for the Business AnalystIn recent years, the terms “big data,” “artificial intelligence” and “technological innovation” have worked their way into our collective vocabulary. And that has businesses in every sector wringing their hands about the effect they stand to have on their own business model. To sharpen their competitive edge, many companies are turning to technology to predict behaviour, make decisions, develop new products, automate processes and more. But the secret to ensuring the long-term success of any solution of this nature is not merely a matter of choosing the right technology. It is about adapting to and managing the change that comes with it. Projects that use big data must therefore be careful to align the corresponding processes with an overall organizational strategy that takes change-related impacts into account.

This seminar aims to give businesses the tools they need to roll out big data–related projects that will impact the members of its organization. Participants will find out how to successfully engage their teams in these changes and bring their big data and other technology projects to fruition.This program teaches managers, directors and vice-presidents how to use leadership techniques that engage employees to contribute more, adapt quickly to everyday change and stress and maintain highly productive working relationships.

You will learn to evaluate various current working relationships with staff and your own bosses, and apply new productivity-building techniques immediately into your workplace.The Center for Creative Leadership (CCL®) developed Coaching for Human Resource Professionals to help HR leaders refine their own coaching skills, foster coaching skills in others and begin to build a coaching culture in their organization. Coaching makes development accessible for everyone, every day.

Change the way you view development. Today’s organizations are awash in a sea of continuous change and new skills are needed from the front-line to the C-suite. That’s where coaching comes in. HR professionals who can infuse a coaching mindset and skills throughout their organization can create opportunities for development, at every level of the organization. Coaching takes place in real-time, on the job and is relevant to each individual and their particular needs. The end result is a more resilient organization.

What Are the Challenges Addressed?

Teaching managers to be more effective in giving feedback & developing others.

Spreading a coaching mindset throughout the organization so everyone has access to coaching.

Refining one’s own coaching skills.

Creating a resilient organization prepared to handle challenges.

Why Choose Coaching for Human Resource Professionals?Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to UC Berkeley Extension from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.Try GRE Tutor for 7 days with no commitment

Start learning today

By hitting submit, you will receive updates from The Economist Group by e-mail about upcoming events, latest business insights, industry surveys and subscription offers.

The Economist Group is a global organisation and operates a strict privacy policy around the world.Today’s workforce is diverse.

When millennials arrived at the workplace, they brought with them new expectations that prompted changes in policies ranging from recruitment training to turnover management.

Meanwhile, tension still exists between Generation X and the Baby Boomers, whose differing work values can cause confusion and even friction at work.

This year, as Generation Z graduates from from college and joins the workforce, your organization will be introduced to a new level of complexity.

Will you be prepared to unite your workers and leverage their talents and varying worldviews to help your organization thrive?

In this one-day course you’ll take a close look at your own work-related expectations and worldviews. You’ll explore the ways in which your ideals complement and conflict with that of other generations, and develop new strategies to recruit, mentor, coach, and support one another across generational divides.

At the end of the day, you’ll know how to manage differing perspectives to promote an inclusive work culture that encourages open communication. You will also know how to motivate individual employees more effectively by capitalizing on the strengths their generational worldviews bring to your organization.

Reduce turnover, increase engagement, and leverage the talents of all generations in your organization.Most people are familiar with the term “power” but do not know how much power affects personal and professional interaction.

In this dynamic class, participants will learn how power works and how to practically apply it in everyday situations. You will also learn how to enhance your own charisma, improve your ability to communicate persuasively and boost your credibility with others. You will discover ways to build your circle of influence and to manage your presence with those around you. Dealing with the challenges presented by organizational politics will also be discussed.

Key TopicsChances are you’ve seen the unfortunate impact of negativity in the workplace. Negative mindsets and interactions can breed conflict and erode productivity. However, research in the field of positive psychology shows that positivity can be learned and, when applied, can lead to high performing teams and workplaces.

This workshop will first provide an understanding of this research by exploring how much positivity is needed in the workplace, how to get it and how it increases performance. Then you’ll learn specific techniques to apply this research for yourself as a leader and for your workplace. The skills include:

flipping negativity

enhancing work relationships (easy and difficult ones)

engaging your team through authentic recognition, discovering strengths and welcoming dissent

discovering positive meaning in the work environment

spreading and absorbing positivity

fostering the proper balance between inquiry (asking questions) and advocacy (stating viewpoints)

exploring the power of a growth mindset with your team, and

coaching individuals using a four-step model that builds your capacity to foster team member growth and performance.

You’ll practice these skills through interactive exercises and case studies to be ready to apply them immediately back at your workplace so you will be able to bring out the best in each of your team members, and yourself.Linda specializes in action research, dynamic change programs, conflict/diversity management, organizational culture, and leadership development. She has a diverse background in human systems intervention, adult education, strategic planning, capacity and team building, and change management.

Linda has worked in both unionized and non-unionized environments including private, public, and financial, high-tech engineering, insurance, leisure, oil retail, health-care, pharmaceuticals, education, law, and regulatory bodies. She draws from over 15 years of human resources and managerial experience to add to her perspective and understanding of client issues. This varied experience offers creative and customized learning experiences built for the unique needs of each client.

Linda is Associate Professor at Royal Roads University, teaching in the Masters of Leadership and Management Program, is an Associate with the Syntegrity Group, a certified Human Systems Dynamics Professional, a Neural Linguistic Programming General Practitioner and a certified Emotional Intelligence (individual and team) Consultant.

Clic clients have come to expect both a clear plan and surprising flexibility, enhanced by a professional, approachable, and friendly style. Clients also expect a partnership for success, where they walk away from the project empowered and independently better equipped.The objective of this e-learning course is to introduce the roles and responsibilities of leaders in managing people, to explain business goals and an organization's strategic goals, and how to manage time and multiple priorities.

Professionals moving into a leadership or management position for the first time, individuals preparing to assume leadership responsibilities and managers or supervisors already performing leadership roles who have not received formal training or wish to sharpen their skills.Some executives play their cards close to the vest, hiding uncertainties and strategic plans from the individuals that support them. But great leaders recognize that modern employees have their pick of career paths and provide personal incentives for emotional engagement across their organization. Embody your values in your behavior, choose empathy over fear and witness how servant leadership secures the long-term health of your organization.

Supercharge the success of your business by prioritizing people first. In Servant Leadership: A Path to High Performance, you'll learn how becoming accountable to those who typically account to you can deepen working relationships, strengthen employee and customer satisfaction, and re-engage the emotional drivers of success across your sphere of influence.

You'll look behind the scenes at some of the world's most successful businesses, including Best Buy, UPS, Whole Foods, Room & Board, Carlson Travel and Grameen Bank, to study their "secrets": people-centric leaders. You'll identify the habits and personal beliefs that power their daily and long-term choices. Using these principles as your guide, you'll participate in workshops to audit your organization and your own behavior during typical business situations. Speakers will share intimate stories of their servant leadership experiences, and each day you'll apply these insights to a personalized plan for improving your effectiveness as a leader. You'll also refine your natural management inclinations with individual coaching from Darden leadership, service and ethics professors, and ultimately discover how the values you demonstrate allow ordinary people to do extraordinary things.Professor Paul Argenti has taught management, corporate responsibility, and corporate communication starting in 1977 at the Harvard Business School, from 1979 to 1981 at the Columbia Business School, and since 1981 as a faculty member at the Tuck School. He has also taught as a visiting professor at the International University of Japan, Helsinki School of Economics, Erasmus University in the Netherlands, London Business School, and Singapore Management University. He currently serves as Faculty Director for Tuck’s Leadership and Strategic Impact and Brand and Reputation programs, as well as Tuck’s custom programs for Novartis and Hitachi Data Systems.

Professor Argenti’s textbook, Corporate Communication (sixth edition) was recently published through McGraw-Hill/Irwin. He is also completing work on the first edition of a seminal work entitled Corporate Responsibility for McGraw-Hill, which focuses on corporate values, shared value, corporate character, and the purpose of the corporation in modern society. Professor Argenti co-authored (with Courtney Barnes) Digital Strategies for Powerful Corporate Communication (2009, McGraw-Hill). Some of his other books include Strategic Corporate Communication (2007, McGraw-Hill), The Power of Corporate Communication (co-authored with UCLA’s Janis Forman, published by McGraw-Hill), and The Fast Forward MBA Pocket Reference (several editions), released through Wiley.

Professor Argenti has written and edited numerous articles for academic publications and practitioner journals such as Harvard Business Review, California Management Review, and MIT Sloan Management Review. He also blogs regularly for Harvard Business Review, The Washington Post, and U.S. News & World Report and appears frequently on radio (NPR) and television (CNBC) commenting on topics related to communications, reputation, and corporate responsibility.

Professor Argenti is a Fulbright Scholar and a winner of the Pathfinder Award in 2007 from the Institute for Public Relations for the excellence of his research over a long career. He serves on the Board of Trustees for the Arthur W. Page Society and the Ethisphere Institute. He also serves on advisory boards to CEOs for a variety of global companies. Finally, he has consulted and run training programs for hundreds of companies including General Electric, ING, Mitsui, Novartis, and Goldman Sachs.The transition from an individual contributor to manager is one of the most difﬁcult, yet critical shifts in any leader's career. Most new managers are promoted for their exceptional performance as an individual. However, being an effective manager demands a deeper awareness of one's leadership impact and ability to drive team performance.

This programme is designed to help rising leaders identify and refine their personal leadership styles, develop their emotional intelligence, and acquire the skills that will enable them to bring out the best in others.

Over five days, you will gain perspectives on how you are perceived, learn to connect with others, and identify areas of growth. The programme also includes a small group coaching session that will help you establish a personal development plan that you can implement within a three to five-year timeframe for sustained career advancement.Unleash the power of your most talented teams - globally, locally, or virtually. Learn best practices to motivate and enable your teams to achieve sustainable high performance with fewer resources.

Although all leaders face the challenges - and opportunities - of leading teams every day, few take the time to learn and implement best practices for leading teams. Consequently, their teams, which are becoming more diverse, more virtual and more cross functional, either derail or fail to reach their full potential. Based on more than four decades of groundbreaking research on high-performing teams, this lively three-day program will arm you with the tools to create, inspire, and lead one of your organization’s most valuable resources - teams.

During this program, you and other aspiring leaders will experience leadership and team assessments, group discussions, video case studies, simulations, and real-life examples of best and worst team leadership practices. Together with a group of leaders from around the globe, you’ll emerge with a deep understanding of your “roles” as a team leader and when and how to employ each one. You’ll learn proven strategies and techniques for driving team decisions and how to influence internal and external stakeholders so your teams drive organizational results.AMERICA, Britain and France fired a barrage of missiles at targets inside Syria on April 14th. The early-morning strikes aimed to punish the regime of Bashar al-Assad for a suspected chemical-weapons attack that killed dozens of people in the city of Douma a week earlier. More than 100 cruise missiles, launched from warplanes and gunboats, struck three Syrian facilities: a scientific research centre used to produce chemical weapons near the capital of Damascus and two military bases further north.

American officials and their European allies were careful to characterise the attack as a one-off strike designed to deter Mr Assad from using chemical weapons again. America’s defence secretary, Jim Mattis, who urged caution in the lead-up to the attack, said: “We were not out to expand this; we were very precise and proportionate.” No more attacks are planned, said Mr Mattis, unless Mr Assad uses chemical weapons again. “This is not about intervening in a civil war. It is not about regime change,” said Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister.

Get our daily newsletter Upgrade your inbox and get our Daily Dispatch and Editor's Picks.













Pentagon officials said the missiles first struck a scientific research centre near Damascus that develops, produces and tests chemical and biological weapons. The other two facilities targeted in the strikes are located west of the city of Homs (see map). One produces sarin gas and the other is part of a military command post, the officials said. Syrian state television claimed some of the missiles were shot down by the government’s air defence systems. Still, “a large part of [Syria’s] chemical arsenal has been destroyed," Jean-Yves Le Drian, France’s foreign minister, told French television.

The attack was twice as big as one launched by America last year, which failed to deter Mr Assad. The earlier strike, involving 59 cruise missiles, was in response to a chemical attack on the town of Khan Sheikhoun in Idlib province. The target, a Syrian air base, was back operating a day later and Mr Assad has launched several suspected chemical attacks since then.

Whether or not Mr Assad is deterred by the latest strike—and warnings of more to come if he continues gassing his people—it will do little to alter the the course of Syria’s civil war. Aided by Iran and Russia, Mr Assad has been winning for some time. Rebels control only a few pockets of territory and are largely cut off from international support. As the missiles hit their targets and anti-aircraft guns lit up the sky, hundreds of people took to the streets of Damascus to protest the strike. After the bombing stopped the Syrian presidency posted on Twitter a video of Mr Assad, dressed in suit and tie, confidently strolling into work. “The morning of resilience,” read the caption beneath.

When announcing the attack, President Donald Trump tried to shame Iran and Russia into stopping Mr Assad from using poison gas again. “To Iran and to Russia I ask: What kind of a nation wants to be associated with the mass murder of innocent men, women and children?” said Mr Trump. Russia, in turn, threatened to respond. “We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences,” said Anatoly Antonov, the ambassador to the United States, in a statement. But neither Russia nor Iran appears to have lost men or military kit in the strike. American and French officials say they warned Russia in advance.

Mr Trump’s desire to make good on his promise to punish the “crimes of a monster” appear to have stalled his plans to pull America out of Syria. About 2,000 American troops are based in the north-east of the country, where they fight alongside a Kurdish-led force against what is left of the Islamic State jihadist group. “We look forward to the day when we can bring our warriors home,” said Mr Trump, while announcing the attack. But his advisers want America to stay in Syria. For this administration, punishing Mr Assad is likely to prove easier than devising a coherent Syria policy.