Digital Business Network (formerly Divia) brings together key players, the latest topics and up-to-date information in digital business. Research conducted at Aalto University and other international universities meets the latest business cases, providing insight for taking organizations to an entirely new level of digitalization.

Digital Business Network is built on six corner stones: technology, innovation, organization, strategy, data and leadership. Over the course of the year, Digital Business Network members will gain a comprehensive idea of trends in digital business and a framework for understanding change.Our SHRM-CP/SHRM-SCP Test Prep courses are designed to help individuals prepare for this important milestone in their careers. For more information on these credentials visit the SHRM website. The courses utilize the most current official Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM) Learning System materials and are taught by experienced HR professionals who have earned the SHRM-SCP designation.

The courses are offered in two formats:

A 12-week course which meets online for 3 hours each week in the evening. Participants review segments of the material each week.

An intensive, 3-day Boot Camp course which meets for 3 consecutive Fridays. Students review the SHRM material before the class begins.

When you complete either course, you will be well-prepared for the SHRM-CP and SCP exams.This program is part of the Certificate in Complex Project & Procurement Leadership and may be taken as part of the certificate program or on a stand-alone basis. Please visit the main page for the Certificate in Complex Project & Procurement Leadership for more information.

Negotiation and problem resolution skills are essential for leaders to deal effectively with multi-party decision making and conflict in all aspects of complex project management. Participants will learn the requisite knowledge, skills and reflective abilities to identify potential sources of conflict and design dispute resolution systems that will lead to successful collaborations. The module will cover negotiating for results (with a particular focus on the interest-based approach to negotiations), effective management of emotions in negotiations, and influence skills in group environments with multiple approval layers.This advanced executive program will provide the participants with a holistic perspective on the mission of management and business development. Through research-based tools and perspectives, it will enable managers to respond with proactivity to the needs for change and development facing today’s businesses and government agencies.

As a participant, you will be able to work from the standpoint of your own organization, with relevant business cases and challenges. Continuous teamwork with shared experiences, input, and feedback from other participants who represent other industries are an important part of the development journey.

The Executive Leadership Program will also boost your leadership development by providing you with new perspectives on leadership and motivation and making you more aware of your own leadership style.

The Executive Leadership Program contains six modules of in total 25 days extended over a period of six months.Managing others requires new skills to handle new challenges. Maximizing Your Leadership Potential guides participants in making the shift from successful individual contributor to effective manager – one of the biggest and most difficult transitions for any leader. Understanding others, motivating others and meeting the needs of diverse teams present new challenges and require new skills.

What Are the Challenges Addressed?

Leading a team. Being “in charge” is different than being a contributor.

Getting the work done. New skills are needed to get results via others.

Dealing with conflict. Interpersonal issues & disagreements can jeopardize teams, departments and projects.

Solving problems. Bigger, more complicated issues are part of the job.

Why Choose CCL’s Maximizing Your Leadership Potential?Professor Seifert's primary research and teaching interests relate to operations management, supply chain strategy and technology network management. He is also active in industry analysis, international project work and new venture formation.

Professor Seifert is director of the Leading the Global Supply Chain program. Since joining IMD in 2000, he has also designed and directed numerous company-specific general management programs. He has actively coached more than 50 project teams and served as consultant and speaker to leading multinational companies.

Based on his work with companies, Professor Seifert has co-authored more than 30 case studies covering different industries. These efforts have been recognized by multiple international case awards granted by EFMD in 2012, 2009 and 2003, ECCH in 2011 and 2006, as well as POMS in 2004. He continues to actively research issues of supply chain strategy, supply chain finance and technology management and has more than 50 articles and international conference presentations to his credit. In addition, he co-authored two books: one focused on strategic supply chain management and another one concerning start-up challenges of technology ventures. In parallel to his appointment at IMD, he is a tenured professor at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL) in Lausanne where he has held the Chair of Technology and Operations Management (TOM) since 2003.

Prior to joining IMD, Professor Seifert studied and worked in Germany, Japan and the US. He earned PhD and MS degrees in Management Science at Stanford University, a Diplom Ingenieur degree in Mechanical Engineering at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) and a Master's degree in Integrated Manufacturing Systems Engineering from North Carolina State University. While in the US, he consulted for Hewlett-Packard and served as Teaching and Research Assistant at Stanford University. In Germany he worked for Booz & Company, McKinsey & Company and Freudenberg & Co. In addition, he spent one year as a Visiting Scholar in Operations Research at Waseda University in Tokyo.

During his studies, Professor Seifert was awarded three highly prestigious scholarships: a European Recovery Program (ERP) Scholarship by the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology of Germany; a Japan Scholarship by Mercedes-Benz and McKinsey & Company, Inc.; and a Fulbright Scholarship by the Fulbright Commission, Germany. Formerly, he was a member of the German National Merit Foundation and the Siemens International Student Circle. He is also a recipient of the Grashof Prize and of the Honors of the Jubiläums-Staats-Stiftung of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology.Professor Seifert's primary research and teaching interests relate to operations management, supply chain strategy and technology network management. He is also active in industry analysis, international project work and new venture formation.

Professor Seifert is director of the Leading the Global Supply Chain program. Since joining IMD in 2000, he has also designed and directed numerous company-specific general management programs. He has actively coached more than 50 project teams and served as consultant and speaker to leading multinational companies.

Based on his work with companies, Professor Seifert has co-authored more than 30 case studies covering different industries. These efforts have been recognized by multiple international case awards granted by EFMD in 2012, 2009 and 2003, ECCH in 2011 and 2006, as well as POMS in 2004. He continues to actively research issues of supply chain strategy, supply chain finance and technology management and has more than 50 articles and international conference presentations to his credit. In addition, he co-authored two books: one focused on strategic supply chain management and another one concerning start-up challenges of technology ventures. In parallel to his appointment at IMD, he is a tenured professor at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL) in Lausanne where he has held the Chair of Technology and Operations Management (TOM) since 2003.

Prior to joining IMD, Professor Seifert studied and worked in Germany, Japan and the US. He earned PhD and MS degrees in Management Science at Stanford University, a Diplom Ingenieur degree in Mechanical Engineering at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) and a Master's degree in Integrated Manufacturing Systems Engineering from North Carolina State University. While in the US, he consulted for Hewlett-Packard and served as Teaching and Research Assistant at Stanford University. In Germany he worked for Booz & Company, McKinsey & Company and Freudenberg & Co. In addition, he spent one year as a Visiting Scholar in Operations Research at Waseda University in Tokyo.

During his studies, Professor Seifert was awarded three highly prestigious scholarships: a European Recovery Program (ERP) Scholarship by the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology of Germany; a Japan Scholarship by Mercedes-Benz and McKinsey & Company, Inc.; and a Fulbright Scholarship by the Fulbright Commission, Germany. Formerly, he was a member of the German National Merit Foundation and the Siemens International Student Circle. He is also a recipient of the Grashof Prize and of the Honors of the Jubiläums-Staats-Stiftung of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology.This 1-day workshop stresses the importance of leaders developing the capacity to adapt: to use a range of effective strategies to navigate power-unequal conflicts in organizations, marshaling potential energy and avoiding pitfalls.

Anyone who works in an organization. Perhaps you are a leader who wants more honesty from people who report to you. Of maybe you need better strategies for reaching your goals when you disagree with your boss.

Whether you lead a department, an entire business, a school, a government unit, a board, or a nonprofit - if you want people to share their best innovative ideas, creative solutions, and candid feedback, you need conflict intelligence. If you are not the boss, but want better ways to manage and influence the people above you - so you can achieve organizational goals and your career objectives - you need conflict intelligence.

While conflicts sometime get tense, they usually manifest more subtly in organizations, as different perspectives, personalities, or as new ideas come into play. Before such disagreements escalate, conflict intelligent leaders and employees know how to use various strategies to get where they want to go. When power differences are involved, many standard conflict resolution techniques fail. This workshop provides a wide array of practical strategies for navigating the differences between parties of unequal power. We offer a vital set of useful tools for any organization facing change, diversity of opinions, or a greater need for candor and creativity.Brookings Executive Education’s program on Enterprise Leadership takes as a starting point the need for successful leaders to embrace a new way of thinking: an ability to develop more sophisticated mental models and knowing when and how to improve them. Instruction centers on capabilities needed by today’s executives and senior leaders to address an increasingly complex and challenging environment, competencies not covered in the OPM ECQs.

These skills include crisis leadership, risk assessment and management, and executive worldview. Other components include leading effectively in a political environment: with both Congress and political appointees. Each day of the program addresses the thinking, skills, and behaviors needed to successfully meet these challenges.This program is Part 2 of the Leading the Shift to a Coaching Culture Certificate. Part 1 must be completed before Part 2.

Leading the Shift to a Coaching Culture focuses on implementing the organizational culture shift to include coaching as a core element to creating a high preforming organization. This program will help you link coaching strategy to corporate objectives, ensure high quality coaching, and sustain it for growth and change. It also sets up a workplace assignment designed to help you communicate the definition and impact of a coaching culture on your organization. This program is four (4) days delivered over two modules which and includes a follow up webinar.

In today’s complex world, leaders and organizations face multiple challenges to increase results while ensuring employee wellness, increasing engagement, and ensuring retention rates. Although multiple tools exist, they deal with single issues rather than a holistic approach to organizational success. Developing a culture of coaching is an integrated solution with a strong track record of keeping organizations and businesses healthy and employees thriving and has been recognized and celebrated for over 17 years. This program provides you with practical tools and approaches that help organizations excel on both side of the equation: results and people.Policies and procedures outline how business is conducted within an organization by providing guidelines for both employees and managers. Policies and procedures can assist a company to grow and prosper or restrict growth and perpetuate ineffective practices.

The objective of this course is to understand how to draft an employee manual according to the needs of an organization. Developing well defined employment policies and procedures is the hallmark of great employee relations.

Key TopicsGiven name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to Bryant School of Business from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.Associate Professor of Management and Organization conducts research that lies at the intersection of organization theory and strategic management. He is interested in how meaning structures shape organizational actions, how organizational practices diffuse, and how accounts framing and justifying practices are constructed. In addition, he works on configurational theory and methods using fuzzy set qualitative comparative analysis. His work has been published in the Academy of Management Journal, Academy of Management Review, Administrative Science Quarterly, American Sociological Review, Organization Science, and Strategic Management Journal. He currently serves as associate editor of Academy of Management Review. In 2010 he received the Western Academy of Management’s Ascendant Scholar Award.Content marketing is still a relatively new practice, but its use has exploded and evolved incredibly rapidly. This proliferation has also ushered in an age of “content shock”, making content marketing as challenging as it is valuable. Creating content for content’s sake should not be the objective; rather, the goal is to invite prospects and customers into your brand story through relevant and engaging forms of content. This, in turn, requires a blend of both creativity (art) and data-driven action (science).

Our Complete Content Marketing online program takes a deep dive into this practice, offering a 360-degree view of both strategic and tactical components to plan, execute, test and measure your content initiatives based on your customers’ needs and preferences.

This online program features 12 hours of instructional content divided into four parts. Topics covered include:Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to HEC Montreal from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.Academic Interests: Professor Mutkoski has been a faculty member at Cornell University's prestigious School of Hotel Administration since 1972. He received his B.S. from Cornell in 1967 and his Doctorate in 1976. A former food and beverage manager and restaurant owner, Professor Mutkoski has been able to combine his professional career with his love of food and wine. He holds the Banfi Vintners Chair of Wine Education and Management. He teaches several Food and Beverage Management courses in both the academic programs and the Executive Education Program. His Introduction to Wines class at Cornell is the world's largest wine tasting class with registration by lottery and class enrollment of up to 860 students each semester.

Professional Experience: He lectures on food and wine throughout the world and visits at least one major wine producing country each year. He and his wife, Patricia, have developed a series of interactive multimedia training/educational programs on the wine producing regions of the world called "The Wine Professor." He has appeared on the Food Network, Prime Time Live and CNN.

External Interests: Professor Mutkoski is a member of several wine and food related associations including the National Restaurant Association, the Society of Wine Educators, the Association Internationale des Maitres Conseils en Gastronomie Francaise, Commanderie du Bontemps de Médoc et des Graves and Cofradia del Vino de Rioja. He also serves as a food and beverage management consultant to several hotel, restaurant, airline and cruise line companies.“Innovation” is in the air! Call it innovation at jet speed or disruptive innovation, technology has transformed the world from what it was decades ago. From wheel to automobile and from calculator to smart phone, Innovators have explored every notion, idea, possibility, technology and their imagination. It is these new thoughts that potentially change everything. However what are the challenges of implementing these innovations? How should organizations evaluate these technological innovations? Is it enough to interject in a small manner, or does it require a complete effort along the value chain to make the innovation sustainable? How should organizations actually manage these technological innovations? How does the organization ensure that technological innovations that happen in a particular unit is also captured by other units of the organization? And then, having decided to implement a technological innovation, what are the challenges in successful product development? We will dwelve into such topics over the course of the program.

The program engages participants through case-based discussions supplemented by lectures. The cases will comprise of a mix of best-practice global cases, and cases developed around technological innovations progressed by Indian companies. The participants will be required to spend time preparing the relevant case studies before the sessions, and hence residential participation is necessary.