Within the ever-changing landscape of U.S. health care delivery lies the need to adjust business practices to accommodate the varying (and often competing) needs of patient, clinical, legal, regulatory, business and reporting requirements. The right application of health care administrative policy and philosophy can ensure that, amid current and future changes in the sector, your hospital operation is prepared to not only survive, but flourish.

Drawing on decades of experience in strategic consulting, investment banking, operational management and health care leadership, the instructor for this course brings real life cases, lessons and experiences to the course to provide meaningful, applicable knowledge for course attendees to implement. The case studies and examples given illustrate the challenges, dynamics and opportunities present in today’s health care environment. .Most healthcare enterprises identify “star” employees who are competent in their lines of work, and promote them to upper management. In a hospital context, senior doctors and nurses are charged with responsibilities that were not part of their professional training. There is thus a critical requirement to boost the management capabilities of those who take on leadership roles.

The General Management Programme for Healthcare Executives (GMHE) is a long duration part-time certificate programme that has been specifically designed for high performing individuals in the healthcare domain, who are transitioning to a management role. The programme has been designed and developed by IIMB in close partnership with Apollo MedSkills, the skills arm of Apollo Hospitals.

A focus on entrepreneurship distinguishes the GMHE programme from competing offerings in healthcare management.The diploma is accredited by the Egyptian Supreme Council of Universities, which is the authoritative approval body for higher education in Egypt.​

The Diploma in Health Care and Hospital Management provides candidates with knowledge and skills that encompass both the business and health care perspectives. Candidates with a management background will become qualified for health care management roles and, similarly, candidates with health care experience will enhance their practical knowledge of management.

The health sector is in direct need of managers that have an in-depth understanding of general management principles and the ability to apply them appropriately to health care delivery systems.

The diploma is ideal for medical doctors and dentists interested in health care management skills. It is also suitable for nonmedical professionals who are employed or intend to work in the health care sector.

The Professional Postgraduate Diploma in Health Care and Hospital Management aims to provide participants with the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to:

• Analyze and solve managerial problems and make effective decisions that ensure the long-term success of their health care organizations (HCOs)

• Develop and deploy appropriate strategies for health care quality

• Become familiar with the necessary managerial applications for health care information and its value in guiding the right decisions at the right time

• Identify and manage the relevant financial aspects to ensure the economic well-being of their HCOs

• Effectively manage HCO human resources and leverage their vital role as a source of competitive advantage and key driver of client satisfaction

• Apply the relevant marketing concepts and principles to cater for consumers’ demand for greater value while balancing other stakeholders’ requirements and expectations

• Develop a sense of care for their professional ethics and act responsibly toward their society and future generations

• Become self-directed, lifelong learners committed to innovation and continuous improvement

• Grasp the relationship between outstanding patient care delivery and competent health care management and administrationThis course identifies the necessary factors and best practices that make organizations special and fully capable of supporting the organizational vision. Explore the most effective leverage points for maintaining your culture’s strengths. Learn how to clarify and deliver a riveting vision, engage others to commit to the organization’s ultimate purpose, and live the core values the company purports to uphold.

This course is well suited to those in an operational leadership position within a large department or organization, and to leaders of smaller organizations with limited HR representation.

Please note that it is NOT suitable for junior managers, team leaders, supervisors, administrative support staff or experienced HR professionals.Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to San Diego School of Business Administration from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.In the midst of change, you have strategic choices to make about where your organization is headed and who you want to become. This inevitably leads to tension between:

What you must do to stay competitive

What you want to do to respect management’s preferences and values

What you can do with the resources at your disposal.

Your challenge as a manager is to fine-tune your analytical skills so you can make realistic strategic decisions and successfully follow through with them to foster your organization’s growth and hone your competitive edge. Re-examine the reasoning behind your strategy and its implementation in order to optimize the outcomes.Leading for Organizational Impact: The Looking Glass Experience provides insight into leading within an organization. When leaders of departments and divisions see challenges and opportunities through the eyes of others, it impacts their individual expertise. A narrow focus is useful in the tactical responsibilities of a specialist, but leaders of functions must see the nuances and the whole picture of an organization’s overall mission to be strategically effective. Navigating diverse global trends, unpredictable economic forces, and rapidly-changing business cycles demand a new set of skills.

What Are the Challenges Addressed?

The challenges are immense. Participants in the program will reflect on organizational challenges involving one or more of the following:

How to be organizationally agile with strategy, people, processes, & systems across the organization.

How to strengthen & deepen relationships to bridge differences & build strategic ties.

How to balance competing priorities when all are important & personal reserves are slim.

Why Choose the Leading for Organizational Impact Program?

A powerful, proven global business simulation — Looking Glass, Inc. — is at the heart of the program and provides hands-on learning & skill practice.

Customized 360-degree assessment offers personalized feedback for each participant.

Research-based content focuses on the issues that matter most.

Offered globally over 30 sessions a year.

After-program assessment & coaching ensure development continues

.Claim value and broaden your scope of action

In a global business environment defined by constant change, uncertainty and the pressure to achieve short-term results, it may be tempting to approach negotiations with external parties as short-term cost-saving opportunities centered on price.

Price is unquestionably a very important dimension in most business deals and negotiators should master the fundamentals of price negotiations. However, limiting the negotiation process to a battle over price significantly reduces the total value different parties could create in partnership. Suppliers or clients squeezed on margins have no choice but to reduce product innovation. They are not empowered to deliver the best they can and trust and respect will be hard to win. You may well end up being the loser in such situations.

Develop win-win partnerships against the odds

Negotiating for Value Creation (NVC) helps you master value creation techniques through the use of multiple frameworks and specific behavioural simulations. The program also shows you how to leverage differences, complexity, uncertainty and even situations of conflict as a potential source of value creation.Claim value and broaden your scope of action

In a global business environment defined by constant change, uncertainty and the pressure to achieve short-term results, it may be tempting to approach negotiations with external parties as short-term cost-saving opportunities centered on price.

Price is unquestionably a very important dimension in most business deals and negotiators should master the fundamentals of price negotiations. However, limiting the negotiation process to a battle over price significantly reduces the total value different parties could create in partnership. Suppliers or clients squeezed on margins have no choice but to reduce product innovation. They are not empowered to deliver the best they can and trust and respect will be hard to win. You may well end up being the loser in such situations.

Develop win-win partnerships against the odds

Negotiating for Value Creation (NVC) helps you master value creation techniques through the use of multiple frameworks and specific behavioural simulations. The program also shows you how to leverage differences, complexity, uncertainty and even situations of conflict as a potential source of value creation.Being a leader means thinking strategically, understanding the intricacies of today’s business environment and strengthening your capacity to contribute at a higher level and/or as a member of your senior management team.

In this course, your will hone your ability to create value, get everyone on the same page and change your organizational culture, all of which are incontrovertible assets in the ever-evolving corporate world. You will also acquire new approaches and analytical tools to make better, bolder strategic decisions.

Come tap into the wisdom of business veterans who have “been there” and share experiences with your fellow participants about the challenges you have had to face. Use your newfound knowledge to become the executive you want to be – someone with strategic insight, decision-making prowess and a knack for thinking outside the box in order to make better decisions at the top and within your management team.Improve your organisation’s overall position with our Leading for Organisational Impact: The Looking Glass Experience program.

Designed by the Centre for Creative Leadership (CCL)®, this program shows you how to progress from everyday management tasks to impacting your company as a whole – from making tough calls and trade-offs, to considering company-wide opportunities and bridging gaps that limit growth. You’ll also uncover your strengths and weaknesses, along with the confidence to address them and move forward as a senior leader.

The Center for Creative Leadership (CCL)®, is a global, top-10, executive education provider, ranked by the Financial Times (2002–2016). Melbourne Business School holds the only Australian partnership with CCL to deliver CCL leadership programs.Make your digital marketing plan work harder for your organization. This online program will guide you through the process of evaluating your current digital marketing plan and initiating changes that lead to more effective marketing.

In this program, you will learn how to determine the strengths and weaknesses of your digital marketing plan and then build and execute a new-and-improved plan. Enjoy the convenience and flexibility of online learning as you explore issues related to digital channels, conversion goals, time constraints, and marketing budgets.

Plan to spend about 20 hours over five weeks completing this program.Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to UC Berkeley Extension from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.About the course

Do you feel overwhelmed when terms like return on investment, P&L or net present value are thrown around in meetings? Change that. Learn basic, practical financial skills from instructors with decades of industry experience. Learn along-side other business professionals facing the same challenges to understand financial terminology, practice concepts with in-class business cases, and move toward being a confident contributor in these discussions.

Who should attend

Ideal for business managers without a finance background Whether you are currently involved in financial decisions or strive to be, you need to build your financial acumen and ability to apply these concepts in order to make sound financial decisions for your company. This program is designed for professionals at any level who are responsible for improving business operations through sound financial strategy. Common program participant titles and job functions may include, but are not limited to: Operations Manager

Office Manager

General Manager

Sales Manager

Marketing Director

Marketing Manager

Brand Manager

Project Manager

Business Consultant

Business Analyst

Management Analyst

Entrepreneurs and business owners

Individuals looking to advance in their careers or those making a career change

Learning outcomes

Upon completion of this program, you’ll do your Monday smarter with: An understanding of finance and accounting terminology

Insight into how your company creates value

A big picture understanding needed for planning and budgeting

The ability to create a strong argument for the financial resources to fund your projects

The confidence to jump right into financial decision making after practicing common business scenarios in class

Course information from University of St. Thomas-Minnesota, Opus College of BusinessAs the world struggles to recover from a historic downturn, the competitive landscape is becoming more heated. Nigeria and other sub-Saharan economies are growing and becoming more attractive, such that local players are increasingly being thrust upon the global stage. Local and regional companies are no longer insulated from global players, and now have to compete head-on with multinational firms that deploy sophisticated strategic analysis and frameworks. At the same time, social and infrastructural deficits make it difficult to compete with foreign-born products and services.

As a result, it is no longer sufficient to have a good product: good products and processes are merely the minimum requirements for taking part in the global competitive game. Businesses and products need to be positioned strategically, and to continually re-invent their strategies. Thus, business leaders can no longer just be competitively effective; they must also be strategically competitive.A number of studies confirm the value of business intelligence for today’s savvy leaders and executives. With the advent of big data, it is even more important to know how to sift through and interpret a dizzying (and ever-growing) volume of information. Research published by McKinsey in 2014 indicated that businesses that analyze their clients’ data obtain a return on investment that is 131% higher than that of competitors who have yet to take the big data plunge.

Cognizant of these issues, Executive Education HEC Montréal has developed a dynamic course that breaks big data down into bite-size chunks. During this seminar, you will learn how to make the most of recent innovations without the need for budget-busting investments in new technology. You will learn how to select and analyze data in a way that supports your company’s strategic approach and business model.Linda specializes in action research, dynamic change programs, conflict/diversity management, organizational culture, and leadership development. She has a diverse background in human systems intervention, adult education, strategic planning, capacity and team building, and change management.

Linda has worked in both unionized and non-unionized environments including private, public, and financial, high-tech engineering, insurance, leisure, oil retail, health-care, pharmaceuticals, education, law, and regulatory bodies. She draws from over 15 years of human resources and managerial experience to add to her perspective and understanding of client issues. This varied experience offers creative and customized learning experiences built for the unique needs of each client.

Linda is Associate Professor at Royal Roads University, teaching in the Masters of Leadership and Management Program, is an Associate with the Syntegrity Group, a certified Human Systems Dynamics Professional, a Neural Linguistic Programming General Practitioner and a certified Emotional Intelligence (individual and team) Consultant.

Clic clients have come to expect both a clear plan and surprising flexibility, enhanced by a professional, approachable, and friendly style. Clients also expect a partnership for success, where they walk away from the project empowered and independently better equipped.Review auditing and attestation standards and their organization. Evaluate effective research techniques and accessibility. Examine the professional responsibilities, required standards and ethics for accountants and auditors. Pay particular attention to the shared client and auditor responsibility to assess internal controls and perform substantive tests on audits and attestation engagements. Topics include financial statement review and compilation.

Reduce stress, enjoy the course material and improve your CPA Exam performance. While you're enrolled in this course, you have the opportunity to test what you learn in class using Roger CPA Review's adaptive learning software, with a proven learning methodology. Take advantage of:Dr. Sandra Sieber is currently Full Professor and Chair of the Department of Information Systems at IESE Business School. She is also the Academic Director of the IESE Global Executive MBA. From 2012 to 2014 she was based at IESE's New York Center, where she served as Director of Academic Programs. She has also served on a regular basis as an Academic Director of Custom and Open Programs at IESE.

She joined IESE in 2000. Previously, she was Associate Professor at University Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona, Spain. From 2001 to 2004, she was appointed as the Academic Director of the PwC-IESE ebCenter. In 2003, she was a Visiting Scholar at the Sloan School of Management, MIT.

Currently, most of her work is centered around how the digital rise is affecting organizations from a variety of perspectives. First, she is an avidly studies how the current technological changes impact business models, both in terms of how they allow for the rise of new value propositions, as well as for their potential to impact their target markets. In this vein, she is especially interested in understanding how existing companies can increase their capabilities to quickly adapt and react, and how their main leaders have to develop a digital mindset to be able to incorporate the digital dimensions into their daily decision making.

From an industry perspective, Dr. Sieber is especially interested in those industries that are being transformed by recent technological advances, such as media and entertainment, telecommunications, banking, retail and automotive.

Dr. Sieber has also worked extensively on the impact of information and communication technologies on organizational and individual work practices, being especially interested in the most recent developments on the impact of social and interactive media on organizations, in particular vis-à-vis inter- and intraorganizational collaboration.

Dr. Sieber has published scholarly and general articles in national and international journals, magazines and newspapers, and contributed to several books. She usually presents her work in the leading conferences of the field, such as ICIS and ECIS. She has served on the organizing committees of a number of conferences. To mention a few, in 2007, Sandra Sieber was the Academic co-chair of the IFIP 8.2 Working Conference in Portland, OR, and served as a track chair at ICIS 2010. In 2012, she co-chaired the European Conference of Information Systems (ECIS) in June 2012, and the Doctoral Consortium of the International Conference of Information Systems (ICIS) in Orlando, Florida in December of 2012.As Fintech continues to evolve, how can leaders and managers respond early and effectively to ride the wave, and leverage the myriad opportunities?

Through seminars, discussions, case studies and reflections, this programme will deepen your understanding of the rapidly changing Fintech landscape and the impact of new innovations on traditional business models. You will be equipped to identify opportunities for disruption, and harness new technologies to build a better business.

Among other key topics, you will explore current and emerging technologies around financial payments and markets, business model innovations, digital strategy, and advanced analytics.Given name

Family name

Your email address

Your phone number

Job Title Please select a job title Top-level (C-Suite, Owner, President, Director) Mid-level (Vice President, regional manager, managing director) Professional (associate, analyst, lower level manager) Entry level, intern or student

Industry Please select an industry Accounting and finance Corporate planning/business development Education/teaching Engineering General management Human resources International operations IT/computers/technology Legal/lawyer Manufacturing/production Medical PR/corporate communications Property and premises Public policy Scientific and technical services Sales Transport and distribution Other

Submit

Disclaimer: When you click submit, we will send an email on your behalf to UC Berkeley Extension from which you are requesting information. The email will contain your contact information so a school representative will be able to get in touch with you.