It's like a time machine that goes back to late 2009

The 2018 Lexus GX 460 has been on sale since late 2009. There have been a few minor updates, but a 2018 model is essentially the same as one from 2010. It's based on the global Toyota Land Cruiser Prado and shares more than a little with the Toyota 4Runner. It slots between the Lexus RX and the big daddy Lexus LX. Despite its age, it's still a seller. Sales were up in 2017. In fact, the GX had its best year in the U.S. since 2005. Blame cheap gas all you want. Really, people just want SUVs.Saturday 100 % 64 ° 48 ° Partly cloudy with a high of 53 °F (11.7 °C). Winds variable at 2 to 11 mph (3.2 to 17.7 kph). Night - Cloudy. Winds from WSW to W at 9 to 18 mph (14.5 to 29.0 kph). The overnight low will be 39 °F (3.9 °C).

Sunday 10 % 48 ° 36 ° Mostly cloudy today with a high of 48 °F (8.9 °C) and a low of 36 °F (2.2 °C).

Monday 0 % 48 ° 33 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 48 °F (8.9 °C) and a low of 33 °F (0.6 °C).

Tuesday 0 % 64 ° 33 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 64 °F (17.8 °C) and a low of 33 °F (0.6 °C).

Wednesday 0 % 69 ° 48 ° Mostly sunny today with a high of 69 °F (20.6 °C) and a low of 48 °F (8.9 °C).

Thursday 0 % 52 ° 40 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 52 °F (11.1 °C) and a low of 40 °F (4.4 °C).

Friday 5 % 57 ° 39 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 57 °F (13.9 °C) and a low of 39 °F (3.9 °C).

Saturday 35 % 58 ° 45 ° Scattered showers today with a high of 58 °F (14.4 °C) and a low of 45 °F (7.2 °C). There is a 35% chance of precipitation.

Sunday 45 % 58 ° 49 ° Scattered showers today with a high of 58 °F (14.4 °C) and a low of 49 °F (9.4 °C). There is a 45% chance of precipitation.President Trump tweets praise of his second decision in two years to fire missiles against Syria, striking at the heart of the country's chemical weapons arsenal.

'Could not have had a better result' »President Trump tweets praise of his second decision in two years to fire missiles against Syria, striking at the heart of the country's chemical weapons arsenal.

'Could not have had a better result' »President Trump tweets praise of his second decision in two years to fire missiles against Syria, striking at the heart of the country's chemical weapons arsenal.

'Could not have had a better result' »Reuters

Cohen had already notified U.S. District Court in Los Angeles on Thursday that he intended to request a stay in Daniels' lawsuit against him and Trump "on the grounds that an ongoing criminal investigation overlaps with the facts of this case." The Friday motion said that because of thatPresident Trump tweets praise of his second decision in two years to fire missiles against Syria, striking at the heart of the country's chemical weapons arsenal.

'Could not have had a better result' »Michael Isikoff and Daniel Klaidman

On this episode of Yahoo News’ Skullduggery, co-hosts Michael Isikoff and Dan Klaidman take a closer look at the recent political attacks on the FBI and what it means for the country’s premier law enforcement agency. They talk to Mike Rogers, the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, and Don Robinson, an ex-FBI agent based in Moscow, to get their thoughts on the current state of the bureau, its relationship with the White House and how and if the FBI can bounce back.Yahoo News Staff

Former FBI director James Comey’s account of his turbulent career in law enforcement, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” is officially out next week, but reviews and excerpts began appearing Thursday. The book is scathing about Comey’s interactions with President Trump, who fired Comey last year over his investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and its possible links to the Trump campaign.Katie Couric

There are at least four investigations there, all run by Republicans because they’re in control of the House and Senate. The Senate intelligence panel is looking broadly at Russia’s efforts to influence last year’s campaign as well as the Trump team’s connections to the Kremlin. The Republican chairman, Devin Nunes of California, had to recuse himself because he seemed too cozy with the White House.Yahoo News

At the Greenberg Law office in Brooklyn, framed advertisements reading “The Real Call Saul” hang on the walls between tongue-in-cheek posters for movies like “Devil’s Advocate.” A small, wiry-haired man sits at a desk with sheets of notes splayed out before him. “My name is Howard Greenberg,” he says. Greenberg is no one to mess with: He has garnered a reputation as one of Manhattan’s craziest – and most successful – defense lawyers, having represented roughly 4,000 defendants and produced an unusually high number of acquittals and dismissals in cases where such results were thought to be impossible.Reuters

Myanmar on Saturday repatriated the first Rohingya family from nearly 700,000 refugees who have fled to Bangladesh, after months of fraught talks with Dhaka and amid the United Nations' warnings that the country is not ready for their return. Fleeing Rohingya refugees have reported killings, rapeUSA Today

According conspiracy theorists the end of the world is coming this month. On April 23, the sun and moon and Jupiter will be in Virgo. Despite wild claims from the Daily Express, the world isn't going to come to an end on April 23. Quoting conspiracy theorist David Meade, the Express said a passage in the Bible, Revelations 12:1-2, "suggests the end of the world is imminent, with Earth set to be destroyed on April 23." Right in the middle of the NBA playoffs? How rude. The Bible passage also signals the start of the Rapture and the second coming of Jesus Christ, Meade said. He also said the position of the planets and constellations is another harbinger of doom, but Space.com said Meade's predictedNews on the former model as she transitions into becoming first lady.WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump on Saturday declared "Mission Accomplished" for a U.S.-led allied missile attack on Syria's chemical weapons program, but the Pentagon said the pummeling of three chemical-related facilities left enough others intact to enable the Assad government to use banned weapons against civilians if it chooses.

"A perfectly executed strike," Trump tweeted after U.S., French and British warplanes and ships launched more than 100 missiles nearly unopposed by Syrian air defenses. "Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!"

His choice of words recalled a similar claim associated with President George W. Bush following the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq. Bush addressed sailors aboard a Navy ship in May 2003 alongside a "Mission Accomplished" banner, just weeks before it became apparent that Iraqis had organized an insurgency that tied down U.S. forces for years.

The nighttime Syria assault was carefully limited to minimize civilian casualties and avoid direct conflict with Syria's key ally, Russia, but confusion arose over the extent to which Washington warned Moscow in advance. The Pentagon said it gave no explicit warning. The U.S. ambassador in Moscow, John Huntsman, said in a video, "Before we took action, the United States communicated with" Russia to "reduce the danger of any Russian or civilian casualties."

Dana W. White, the chief Pentagon spokeswoman, said that to her knowledge no one in the Defense Department communicated with Moscow in advance, other than the acknowledged use of a military-to-military hotline that has routinely helped minimize the risk of U.S.-Russian collisions or confrontations in Syrian airspace. Officials said this did not include giving Russian advance notice of where or when allied airstrikes would happen.

Russia has military forces, including air defenses, in several areas of Syria to support President Bashar Assad in his long war against anti-government rebels.

Russia and Iran called the use of force by the United States and its allies a "military crime" and "act of aggression." The U.N. Security Council met to debate the strikes, but rejected a Russian resolution calling for condemnation of the "aggression" by the three Western allies.

Trump's U.N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, told the session that the president has made it clear that if Assad uses poison gas again, "the United States is locked and loaded."

Assad denies he has used chemical weapons, and the Trump administration has yet to present hard evidence of what it says precipitated the allied missiles attack: a chlorine gas attack on civilians in Douma on April 7. The U.S. says it suspects that sarin gas also was used.

"Good souls will not be humiliated," Assad tweeted, while hundreds of Syrians gathered in Damascus, the capital, where they flashed victory signs and waved flags in scenes of defiance after the early morning barrage.

The strikes "successfully hit every target," White told reporters at the Pentagon. The military said there were three targets: the Barzah chemical weapons research and development site in the Damascus area, a chemical weapons storage facility near Homs and a chemical weapons "bunker" a few miles from the second target.

Although officials said the singular target was Assad's chemical weapons capability, his air force, including helicopters he allegedly has used to drop chemical weapons on civilians, were spared. In a U.S. military action a year ago in response to a sarin gas attack, the Pentagon said missiles took out nearly 20 percent of the Syrian air force.

As of Saturday, neither Syria nor its Russian or Iranian allies retaliated, Pentagon officials said.

The U.S.-led operation won broad Western support. The NATO alliance gave its full backing; NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said in Brussels that the attack was about ensuring that chemical weapons cannot be used with impunity.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel called the attack "necessary and appropriate."

In his televised address from the White House on Friday evening, Trump said the U.S. was prepared to sustain economic, diplomatic and military pressure on Assad until the Syrian leader ends what Trump called a criminal pattern of killing his own people with internationally banned chemical weapons. That did not mean military strikes would continue. In fact, Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said no additional attacks were planned.WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump issued a pardon Friday to I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, suggesting the former top aide to Vice President Dick Cheney had been "treated unfairly" by a special counsel. The pardon comes at a moment when the president faces an escalating special counsel investigation of his own.

White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders insisted the pardon was not intended to send a message to the special counsel investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election, saying, "One thing has nothing to do with the other." But critics noted the timing, coming as Trump fumes over Robert Mueller's probe, which he has dubbed a "witch hunt."

Trump said in a statement that he didn't know Libby, "but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly."

Libby, Cheney's former chief of staff, was convicted in 2007 of lying to investigators and obstruction of justice following the 2003 leak of the covert identity of CIA officer Valerie Plame, though no one was ever charged for the leak. President George W. Bush later commuted Libby's 30-month prison sentence but didn't issue a pardon despite intense pressure from Cheney.

In a statement, Libby thanked Trump, saying his family has "suffered under the weight of a terrible injustice." He said Trump "recognized this wrong and would not let it persist. For this honorable act, we shall forever be grateful."

Pardons are not a finding of innocence, but they do restore the civil rights that are normally lost because of a criminal conviction. The White House said that a witness against Libby later changed her version of events and that Libby had a decade of public service and an "unblemished" record since. He had been disbarred but was reinstated by the District of Columbia Court of Appeals in 2016.

Conservatives have rallied around Libby's case, arguing he was the victim of an overly zealous and politically motivated prosecution by a special counsel. In a twist, the special counsel in Libby's case, Patrick Fitzgerald, was appointed by James Comey, deputy attorney general at the time. Comey later became head of the FBI but was fired by Trump in 2017 and has since written a book highly critical of the president.

Fitzgerald denied that Libby's prosecution was unjust.

"While the President has the constitutional power to pardon, the decision to do so in this case purports to be premised on the notion that Libby was an innocent man convicted on the basis of inaccurate testimony caused by the prosecution," he said Friday. "This is false."

Libby's attorneys, Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing, issued a statement thanking Trump for "addressing a gross injustice" they said was inflicted by Fitzgerald and Comey. Toensing told the Associated Press that she submitted the pardon papers for Libby to the White House counsel's office last summer. She said the president called her midday Friday to deliver the news.

"He said, 'He got screwed,'" Toensing recalled.

Trump knows the attorneys and had sought to add them to his legal team in the Russian investigation, but it was determined diGenova and Toensing had conflicts of interest that would prevent them from joining.

A spokesman for Bush said the former president was "very pleased" for Libby and his family. Rep. Liz Cheney, a Wyoming Republican and daughter of the former vice president, said Libby was the victim of a "miscarriage of justice," and she thanked Trump for "righting a terrible wrong."

Critics questioned the timing of the pardon.

"It hasn't been done through the normal channels. He hasn't gone through the pardon office. And there's no particular reason to pardon Scooter Libby," Democratic Rep. Jerrold Nadler said earlier Friday, amid reports that a pardon was planned. "So one certainly suspects there's a message."

And Democratic Rep. Gerry Connolly of Virginia, the vice ranking member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said Trump "is sending a clear signal to others that he will reward obstruction of justice. This is a sad moment for our democracy and justice system."

Plame, appearing on MSNBC on Friday before the pardon was issued, said granting one would send a message "that you can commit crimes against national security and you will be pardoned." After the pardon, she said in a statement that the argument that Libby had been treated unfairly was "simply false."

The pardon was the third for Trump. He issued one last year to former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio, who was awaiting sentencing for contempt of court. Trump also pardoned a U.S. Navy sailor who was convicted of taking photos of classified portions of a submarine.

___

Associated Press writer Kevin Freking contributed to this report.

___

This story has been corrected to show Liz Cheney represents Wyoming, not Montana.WASHINGTON — When FBI agents raided the office and residences of President Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen this week, they were looking for much more than evidence of hush-money payoffs to women the president might have slept with, sources familiar with the investigation say.

In the weeks leading up to the raid, prosecutors working with special counsel Robert Mueller asked pointed questions about Cohen’s personal real estate deals, his efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, and his family’s taxi business, as well as payments to actress Stormy Daniels, a source who was among those questioned told Yahoo News.

This interest from the special counsel preceded Monday’s FBI raids on Cohen’s office, his home and a Manhattan hotel where he had been staying. The New York Times reported that the raid stemmed partially from a referral from Mueller, and that it sought records related to Cohen’s cab business and the payments to the women. This new information about the questions Mueller’s team had about Cohen reveals that the FBI’s interest in Cohen’s personal finances and foreign business dealings goes even deeper.

Cohen has not responded to multiple requests from Yahoo News. His lawyer, Stephen Ryan, declined to comment on whether the FBI is looking into Cohen’s business history.

“I’m not taking calls in my office from the press. Thanks,” Ryan said before hanging up.

Ryan did not respond to a subsequent email from Yahoo News.

The U.S. attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York also declined to comment about any matter related to Cohen.

On Monday, the day of the FBI raid, the multinational law firm and lobbying powerhouse Squire Patton Boggs said it was ending what had been described as a “strategic alliance” with Cohen that was announced almost exactly one year ago. According to the New York Law Journal, Cohen was a mysterious presence at the firm, with many of his colleagues unclear about his role and troubled by the murky arrangement even before FBI agents burst into his office.

In the wake of the FBI raid, many of Cohen’s other business associates refused to answer questions about their relationship with him. This included the Republican National Committee, which gave Cohen a top fundraising position almost exactly one year ago.

On April 3, 2017, the RNC named Cohen a national deputy chairman of its Finance leadership team. The announcement cited the “more than a decade” that Cohen had spent as an executive at Trump’s real estate company. It also noted that Cohen “sat on the boards of multiple Trump organizations, including Trump Productions, the Eric Trump Foundation, and the Miss Universe Organization.” The RNC touted Cohen’s support for Trump’s political efforts, including “raising millions of dollars for his campaign” and serving as “an active spokesperson and advisor for the President during his interest in seeking office since 2011.” Patton Boggs noted Cohen’s role at the RNC when his relationship with the firm was announced.

Yahoo News called the RNC’s press office on Thursday to confirm whether Cohen is still a national deputy chairman of the party’s Finance leadership team. A woman who answered the phone said she believed Cohen still has a position with the party. She said we should email the communications team for a “proper statement” about his role.

Over the next several hours, the RNC did not respond to that email. Yahoo News subsequently called the RNC, seeking a response. The woman who answered the phone this second time said the earlier call had been answered by an “intern” and she would not confirm whether Cohen remains with the RNC.

The RNC also would not say whether the FBI had taken records related to his fundraising. RNC finance chairman Todd Ricketts did not respond to multiple requests for comment about Cohen.

It may be hard for the party to cast Cohen aside, given his close relationship with the president. The FBI’s raid on Cohen reportedly enraged Trump, who called it a “real disgrace” and accused Mueller of conducting a “total witch hunt” during an appearance at the White House on Monday. Trump’s response to the Cohen raid has led to mounting speculation that he could seek to fire Mueller.

Cohen’s personal real estate business, which has apparently attracted the attention of the FBI, may not be as high profile as Trump’s, but it’s not small either. Cohen has owned multiple New York City apartment buildings, including one he reportedly purchased in 2015 for $58 million. Cohen’s real estate investments led to his first public association with Trump. According to an article in the New York Post, Cohen purchased an apartment at Trump World Tower in Manhattan in 2001. The Post noted that Cohen was “so impressed” with Trump’s building that he “convinced his parents, his in-laws and a business partner to buy there, too.”

Trump World Tower in New York City. (Photo: Jeffrey Greenberg/UIG via Getty Images) More

“Cohen’s in-laws went on purchase two more units there and one at Trump Grande in Sunny Isles, Fla.,” the Post article said.

In that newspaper story, which was published in 2007, Trump was quoted praising Cohen for buying in his buildings.

“Michael Cohen has a great insight into the real-estate market. … He has invested in my buildings because he likes to make money — and he does,” Trump said, adding, “In short, he’s a very smart person.”

Cohen became an executive at the Trump Organization that same year.

Public records show that Fima and Ania Shusterman, the parents of Cohen’s wife, Laura, have lived at Trump World Tower. The Shustermans are Ukrainian. Cohen’s brother, Bryan, also married a Ukrainian woman. Bryan Cohen’s father-in-law, Alex Oronov, purchased an apartment at Trump Hollywood in Florida in 2010.

Cohen’s Ukrainian in-laws have had extensive business dealings with him, including his taxi operation.

According to an analysis from the Real Deal, a local real estate industry trade publication, Cohen owned at least 34 taxi medallions in New York City as of 2017. That’s a multimillion-dollar operation. Medallions are a license to operate a yellow cab in the city and, in the past, have been worth as much as $1 million each. In more recent years, the yellow cab business has suffered due to the rise of ride-sharing apps like Uber, and the medallions have sold for under $200,000.

The Huffington Post documented how Cohen inherited part of his taxi business from the Shustermans. According to the news site Talking Points Memo, which has extensively chronicled Cohen’s business dealings and ties to Eastern Europe, the medallions were subsequently managed by a Ukrainian cab entrepreneur named Simon Garber, who had been a client of Cohen’s and has a lengthy police record. Talking Points Memo reported that the Cohen family’s partnership with Garber fell apart amid a legal dispute in 2012. Yahoo News called Garber on Thursday to ask about his dealings with Cohen, and he was decidedly not forthcoming.

Michael Cohen arrives at his hotel in New York, April 11, 2018. (Photo: Seth Wenig/AP) More

“Who’s Michael Cohen?” he asked before hanging up the phone.

The family’s medallions were then managed by Russian-born Evgeny Freidman, who is known as the “taxi king” for his New York City cab empire. Reached on the phone Wednesday, Freidman, who has had a litany of legal issues, also hung up without discussing his relationship with Cohen.

“I’m not interested,” Freidman said.

In a previous conversation with Talking Points Memo, Freidman said that he and Cohen are both friends and partners.

“I help him out as much as I can. I also have a business relationship, but we’re friends, you know. We have dinner with his wife,” Freidman said.

Yahoo News briefly spoke to Cohen’s father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, on Wednesday. Shusterman would not discuss the family’s taxi ventures.

“I am not in taxi business long time,” Shusterman said. “I don’t want to talk about it.”

On Wednesday, the New York Daily News reported that the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance has said Cohen and his wife owe more than $55,000 in unpaid taxes connected to their taxi business. The oldest tax warrants are from 2013, and the total amount of alleged debt has grown by more than $15,000 since last August. Back then, Talking Points Memo asked about the debt, and Cohen suggested it was connected to Freidman’s tax issues. Freidman was arrested in 2017 and charged with failing to pay millions to the state.

The taxi operation isn’t the only time Cohen entered into business with his Ukrainian in-laws. In 2006, Oronov, Bryan Cohen’s father-in-law, teamed up with the two brothers on multiple companies involved in the Ukrainian ethanol industry. Those ventures were also detailed by Talking Points Memo and BuzzFeed. Bryan Cohen did not respond to a request for comment on this story. Oronov passed away in March 2017.

After Cohen began working for the Trump Organization in 2007, he became the future president’s self-described fiercely loyal fixer.

“If somebody does something Mr. Trump doesn’t like, I do everything in my power to resolve it to Mr. Trump’s benefit,” Cohen said in a 2011 interview with ABC News.

Cohen was one of Trump’s earliest political advisers who counseled the future president when he had just a handful of aides working on a campaign that wasn’t taken seriously by the Washington establishment. Cohen never officially joined Trump’s campaign, but he led an outside organization aimed at helping Trump win over minority voters. Cohen also regularly made television appearances on Trump’s behalf, including a famous interview where he questioned poll numbers.

Michael Cohen, personal lawyer for then-President-elect Trump, gets into an elevator at Trump Tower, Dec. 12, 2016, in New York City. (Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images) More

It’s Cohen’s work behind the scenes of the campaign that has attracted the FBI’s interest — trying to build a Trump Tower in Moscow and paying a porn star who claimed Trump had an affair with her.

Cohen has confirmed that he reached out to the Kremlin as the Trump Organization pursued the Moscow project from September 2015 until January 2016, which was during Trump’s presidential bid. In a statement to CNN, Cohen described the Trump Moscow proposal as “one of many development opportunities that the Trump Organization considered and ultimately rejected.” Though the project didn’t come to fruition, it’s an obvious area of interest to Mueller’s probe, which is focused on the Kremlin’s meddling in the 2016 election. The U.S. intelligence community has said that this Russian interference was aimed at helping Trump win the race.

Trump Moscow was reportedly the brainchild of Felix Sater, a Russian developer who had office space in Trump’s Manhattan headquarters and had a deal to build Trump-branded properties. In a May 2016 interview with Yahoo News, Trump suggested that he barely knew Sater.

“He was a guy who would bring deals up here, but we did very few of them. … Who was that? Sa-ter? Sater, yeah, we did very few of the deals,” Trump said. “He was somebody that he worked for a company, he worked for a company and he would bring deals to us, but we did very few of the deals.”

Yahoo News reached out to Sater on Wednesday to ask about his relationship with Cohen. Sater said he would only answer questions in writing because the media has focused on his conviction in a stock fraud scheme rather than his extensive work as a U.S. intelligence asset who provided the government with valuable information about terrorists and mobsters. In an email to Yahoo News, Sater said that he and Cohen “first met as teenagers.”

The $130,000 payment to the porn star, Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels, was made by Cohen in October 2016, just weeks before the presidential election. The payment was part of a confidentiality agreement that prevented Daniels from discussing an affair she claims to have had with Trump in 2006. After the Wall Street Journal revealed the payment in January, a watchdog group filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission alleging that the transaction constituted an undeclared campaign contribution to Trump, which would be a violation of campaign finance laws. In statements to the media and the commission, Cohen said the money had come from his own pocket. He described the payment as “a private transaction” that was “not a campaign contribution.”

In February, Cohen told Yahoo News that he had paid Daniels even though her claim about the affair with Trump was false.

“Just because something isn’t true doesn’t mean that it can’t cause you harm or damage,” Cohen said. “I will always protect Mr. Trump.”

Trump has denied being aware of the payment and referred questions about it to Cohen.

Stormy Daniels, aka Stephanie Clifford, is interviewed by Anderson Cooper on CBS News’ 60 Minutes in early March 2018. (Photo: CBSNews/60 Minutes/Handout via Reuters) More

Daniels has filed a suit against Cohen and Trump arguing that the nondisclosure agreement she signed in conjunction with the payment is invalid because it was not signed by Trump. She has also separately filed a defamation suit against Cohen arguing that his denial of the affair falsely painted her as a liar.

Former Playboy Playmate Karen McDougal has also claimed that she had an affair with Trump in 2006. American Media, Inc., which publishes the National Enquirer, signed a six-figure contract with McDougal that she has described as an effort to bury her story. Cohen and Trump are close with AMI chairman and CEO David Pecker, and the special counsel’s prosecutors have probed whether Cohen also was involved in McDougal’s tabloid deal.

Questions about Cohen’s family and his dealings with the Kremlin first burst into the spotlight in January 2017, when BuzzFeed published an unconfirmed dossier compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele, who was paid by Democrats and Republicans to conduct opposition research on Trump during the 2016 election. The dossier, which contained some errors, said that Cohen played an instrumental role in an ongoing exchange of information between Trump’s campaign and the Kremlin. Among other things, the document alleged that Cohen met with “Kremlin representatives” in Prague in August 2016. The dossier described Cohen’s wife as being “of Russian descent” and suggested that his father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, was a “a leading property developer in Moscow.”

Cohen strongly denied the various allegations in the dossier in a January 2017 interview with Yahoo News, where he noted that his wife is Ukrainian rather than Russian.

“I have no Russian Kremlin connections. My father-in-law is not a real estate developer friend of Putin’s in Russia. I don’t even think my father-in-law ever has been to Russia,” Cohen said of Shusterman.

Shusterman would not discuss the allegations in the dossier when Yahoo News called him on Wednesday.

“I don’t want to talk about it. Goodbye,” Shusterman said before hanging up.

Cohen brought up another one of his Ukrainian relatives, his brother’s father-in-law, Alex Oronov, in the interview where he denied the accusations in the dossier. As he claimed that he had never traveled to Russia, Cohen suggested his only visits to the region were two trips to Ukraine in “either 2003 or 2004,” because his “brother’s father-in-law lives in Kiev.” That was around the time the Cohen brothers were involved in the ethanol businesses with Oronov.

“I went to Kiev. That’s the extent of it. I’ve never been to Russia,” Cohen said.

Donald Trump, Tevfik Arif and Felix Sater attend the Trump SoHo Launch Party on Sept. 19, 2007, in New York. (Photo: Mark Von Holden/WireImage) More

On Jan. 19, 2017, the day before Trump took office, Cohen announced that he would be resigning from the Trump Organization and would become the president’s personal attorney.

“I’m not a government official. I’m not taking a government salary,” Cohen said. “I’m just going to continue technically in the role that I play for Mr. Trump as president of the Trump Organization. I’m just going to be doing it as Donald Trump as president of the United States.”

In his new role, Cohen was involved in another bit of intrigue with links to Sater and Oronov. In February 2017, the New York Times reported that Cohen delivered Trump’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn a peace plan for Ukraine and Russia that would have enabled the president to lift sanctions on Moscow. The proposal was crafted by Andrii Artemenko, a Ukrainian politician who met with Sater and Cohen shortly after Trump took office.

In a March 2017 Facebook post, Artemenko said that Oronov, Cohen’s brother’s father-in-law, introduced him to Cohen. Cohen disputed Artemenko’s claim and said that Sater had arranged the meeting about the peace plan. In his email to Yahoo News, Sater backed up Cohen’s version of events.

“Artemenko approached me,” Sater wrote of the peace plan. “I gave it to Michael to pass to the administration. I had been dealing with him on the Trump Moscow deal and just naturally followed up with him.”

Flynn resigned as Trump’s national security adviser amid a scandal over his own dealings with Russian officials days after Cohen delivered him the peace plan. Sater said that he and Cohen did not present the proposal to anyone else in the White House after Flynn’s departure.

Yahoo News also asked Sater if the FBI has questioned him about Cohen or requested any documents related to the president’s personal attorney.

“No comment,” Sater wrote.

_____

Read more from Yahoo News:New York City comic and ex-radio host Randy Credico says that longtime Donald Trump adviser Roger Stone sent him “scary,” obscenity-filled emails — including one threatening his dog — after he went public disputing Stone’s claim that Credico was his “backchannel” to WikiLeaks during the 2016 presidential campaign.

In a new interview on the Yahoo News podcast “Skullduggery,” Credico shared with co-hosts Daniel Klaidman and Michael Isikoff email messages he said he had received from Stone in just the last few days.

“You are a rat. You are a stoolie. You backstab your friends — run your mouth my lawyers are dying Rip you to shreds,” one of them read.

Then Stone added: “I’m going to take that dog away from you,” referring to Credico’s “therapy” dog, a Coton de Tulear named Bianca. “Not a f***ing thing you can do about it either because you are a weak broke piece of s***.”

“It’s certainly scary,” Credico told Skullduggery about the Stone emails. “When you start bringing up my dog, you’re crossing the line.”

Credico said the repeated obscenities in the emails and their abusive tone suggested that Stone is lashing out because he is growing increasingly fearful about the investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller. He cited this week’s FBI raid of the offices of Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer.

“I think he’s wigging out right now,” Credico said. “After Cohen was raided, I’m sure he thinks he’s next.”

Asked for comment, Stone responded Thursday night in an email to Isikoff: “Go f*** yourself FBI Schill [sic].”

Download or subscribe on iTunes: “Skullduggery” by Yahoo News

The dispute between Stone and Credico — who, despite their political differences, were once close friends — began last month after a new book, “Russian Roulette,” co-authored by Isikoff and David Corn, quoted Credico as disputing Stone’s account to a congressional committee about his contacts with WikiLeaks. Stone had said at a political rally in Florida on Aug. 8, 2016, that he had “communicated” with Julian Assange about emails the WikiLeaks founder would soon release as part of an “October Surprise” that would reveal “stone cold proof of the criminality of Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton.”

But when he was called to testify before the House Intelligence Committee last November, Stone released a statement asserting that he never actually spoke to Assange at all. Instead, he said it was actually a “journalist” who was his “intermediary” with Assange, who “confirmed” to him that WikiLeaks was about to dump a “motherlode” of emails about Clinton. “This journalist assured me that WikiLeaks would release this information in October [2016] and continued to assure me of this throughout the balance of August and all of September. This information proved to be correct,” Stone told the committee in a statement last November.

He later identified the journalist as Credico.

But in “Russian Roulette,” Credico rejected Stone’s account as nonsensical. Credico told the authors he never even spoke to Assange until he had the Trump adviser as a guest on his radio show on Aug. 26, 2016, and that he never knew anything about WikiLeaks’ plans to publicly release the Clinton campaign emails.

“He’s got me as the fall guy,” Credico was quoted as saying. “It’s ridiculous.”

Roger Stone speaks to reporters after appearing before a closed House Intelligence Committee hearing on Sept. 26, 2017. (Photo: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters) More

Stone’s claims about his contacts with WikiLeaks took another bizarre twist this month when the Wall Street Journal reported that Mueller’s prosecutors were investigating an email that Sam Nunberg, another former Trump adviser, had gotten from Stone on Aug. 4, 2016, saying, “I dined with my new pal Julian Assange last nite.”

Stone said the email to Nunberg was a joke, and reiterated that he never communicated with Assange at all in 2016, releasing screenshots showing he was on an Delta Air Lines flight from Los Angeles to Miami on the night before the email was sent. “I never dined with Assange,” Stone told the Journal. The email “doesn’t have any significance because I provably didn’t go … there was no such meeting. It’s not what you say, it’s what you do. This was said in jest.”UNITED NATIONS (AP) — The U.N. Security Council overwhelmingly rejected a Russian resolution calling for condemnation of "aggression" by the United States, United Kingdom and France against Syria on Saturday, a vote reflecting support for the allied airstrikes on Syrian chemical sites.

But the vote at the end of an emergency meeting called by Russia also demonstrated again the paralysis of the U.N.'s most powerful body in dealing with Syria's seven-year conflict.

Russia's demand for condemnation and an immediate halt to "aggression" and "any further use of force" by the three Western allies got support from only two other countries on the 15-member Security Council — China and Bolivia.

By contrast, eight countries voted against the Russian draft — the U.S., U.K., France, Netherlands, Sweden, Kuwait, Poland and Ivory Coast. Four countries abstained — Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Equatorial Guinea and Peru.

At the meeting, the fifth in a week on chemical weapons in Syria, Russia and its supporters again clashed with the U.S. and its allies over a suspected poison gas attack on April 7 in the Damascus suburb of Douma.

The U.S., U.K. and France said they launched airstrikes against Syrian chemical sites after obtaining evidence that a chemical weapon was used by President Bashar Assad's government. Russia and its ally Syria called the attack fabricated and said no evidence of chemical weapons use exists in Douma.

U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley told the council "there is clear information demonstrating Assad's culpability."

And she said President Donald Trump told her Saturday morning that if the Syrian regime uses poisonous gas again "the United States is locked and loaded" to strike again.

"When our president draws a red line, our president enforces the red line," Haley stressed. "The United States of America will not allow the Assad regime to continue using chemical weapons."

France's U.N. Ambassador Francois Delattre said the result of the vote sends "a clear message" that Security Council members recognized the need for the airstrikes, and "their proportional and targeted nature."

"And what's most important is no one contests that the use of chemical weapons cannot be tolerated and must be deterred," he said. "That is essential."

Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said the meeting confirmed that the U.S. and its allies "continue to put international politics and diplomacy in the realm of myth-making — myths invented in London, Paris and Washington."

"We put facts contrary to your myths," he said. "If we continue on this path, we will soon reach the diplomacy of the absurd."

Russia and Syria also clashed with the three Western allies over the legality of the airstrikes and responsibility for the Security Council's paralysis.

Britain's U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce blamed Russia for repeatedly vetoing resolutions on the use of chemical weapons in Syria and said the U.K. took military action "to save lives," on the legal basis of "humanitarian intervention."

Britain believes "that is wholly within the principles and practices of the United Nations," she said.

Russia's Nebenzia called it "a very sad day for the world, for the U.N., for its Charter which was blatantly, blatantly violated, and for the Security Council which has shirked its responsibilities."

"I would like to believe that we will not see a day that is worse than today," he said.

Looking ahead, Delattre said France, Britain and the United States will soon be presenting the Security Council with a new draft resolution aimed at achieving a lasting solution to the Syrian conflict that addresses political, chemical and humanitarian issues.

Nebenzia responded saying the environment is "not very conducive for any rapprochement" and "the political and dangerous military situation we are in now" must be sorted out first.

"Once again, we demand an immediate stop to aggression and refrain from the illegal use of force in the future," he said.

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who briefed the council before the vote, stressed again "the need to avoid the situation from spiraling out of control" and for a political solution.

Guterres said he has asked Syrian special envoy Staffan de Mistura to come to New York as soon as possible to consult "on the most effective way to accelerate the political process."Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin slammed protesting teachers with an outrageous accusation Friday evening, indicating they were responsible for the inevitable sexual assault or poisoning of children left home alone in his state because school was out.

“I’m offended by the fact that people so cavalierly, and so flippantly, disregarded what’s truly best for children,” the Republican governor said at an impromptu news conference captured on video after teachers rallied at the state Capitol to stop school funding cuts.

Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin on the teacher rallies today. “I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them.” pic.twitter.com/Q4PpzFsTt2 — Marcus Green (@MarcusGreenWDRB) April 13, 2018

Bevin also dissed protesting teachers for “hangin’ out, shoes off ... smokin’, leavin’ trash around, takin’ the day off.”

Bevin said “for a fact .... hundreds of thousands” of children were left home alone because schools were closed in 39 districts across the state to allow teachers and administrators to protest funding cuts.

“I guarantee you somewhere in Kentucky today a child was sexually assaulted that was left at home because there was nobody there to watch them,” he said. “I guarantee you somewhere today a child was physically harmed or ingested poison because they were home alone because a single parent didn’t have any money to take care of them.”

Bevin said, that in some “communities,” his fellow Kentuckians knew children would be home alone and “took advantage of it.” He added: “As surely as we’re having this conversation, children were harmed, some physically, some sexually. Some were introduced to drugs for the first time because they were vulnerable and left alone. It’s offensive. It really is.”

Teachers rallied in Frankfort to urge legislators to override Bevin’s vetoes of the budget and tax reform bills — which they did on Friday.

Kentucky Education Association President Stephanie Winkler told The Louisville Courier-Journal that she was “appalled” by Bevin’s remarks. Organizers said parents were given plenty of notice about school closings.

Jefferson County Teachers Association President Brent McKim told the Courier-Journal that using Bevin’s logic, schools should never close.

“The fact is, every school district did its level best to let parents know school was going to be closed with as much notice as possible,” McKim said. “The bottom line is that’s one day. He was cutting hundreds of millions of dollars from kids that would impact every day, and that’s what we were in Frankfort to stop. We were there with the overwhelming support and encouragement of our parents who know that we care about every student in our classes.”Let me put it to you this way, Mr. President. Who are you going to listen to — the voice of the stable genius inside your head, or the timid voices of experience, the ones that said you’d never win?

You know what you want to do. Just do it already.

Oh sure, all the sour-faced pundits are warning of a national crisis if you follow through. All those bed-wetting Republicans on the Hill are counseling patience and caution. Your senior staff is glued to their Twitter feeds, praying you won’t hit Send on something you can’t take back.

But they’re not the ones who sit in that swivel chair, are they. They never in their lives registered so much as a blip in the Nielsen ratings. Paul Ryan’s so smart that you gave him the biggest tax cut in the history of civilization and he still can’t hold his seat in Podunk, Wis.

Go on, Mr. President. Fire Bob Mueller. Please.

Don’t stop there, either — fire the rest of them, too. Sessions will be useless. That Boy Scout Rosenstein won’t have your back, either. There must be something in the halls of the Justice Department that causes people to suddenly grow a conscience, like some goiter sprouting on the soul.

Burn it down, Mr. President. Do what you really came here to do. Let’s see how those Ivy League lawyers like taking orders from Attorney General Laura Ingraham and her new deputy, Michael Cohen.

You said it yourself: This latest raid on Cohen, your most trusted personal lackey, was an attack on America. I couldn’t agree more. The first image that jumped into my mind when I heard the news was Pearl Harbor.

Many years from now, our grandchildren will mark the day of the Stormy Daniels Raid with little shoebox dioramas of federal prosecutors marching into Rockefeller Center.

What were they really after, anyway? Payoffs to paramours? Campaign finance violations? No, Mueller’s aiming higher than that.

Prosecutors sometimes talk about “tickling the wire,” by which they mean purposely freaking out witnesses who might be under electronic surveillance. You rattle the dumpster a little, and then you sit back and listen as the rats inside panic.

My guess is that Mueller is onto the real stuff now: loans from Moscow laundered through European banks, clumsy backchannel connections to your meathead son-in-law, bullying from the Oval Office that might cross the line into outright obstruction.

He’s crossed the moat and breached the castle now. He’s rummaging through the Hall of Armor.

And what he’s doing now is goading you. Tickling the wire. Pushing your buttons to see just how reckless your cronies can get.

You and I know who Mueller is, Mr. President. Born in Manhattan, schooled at St. Paul’s and Princeton. He played high school hockey with John Kerry. He even looks like John Kerry. He might be John Kerry, for all we know.

The newspaper profiles never fail to mention that Mueller joined the Marines, fought in Vietnam, got himself covered head to toe with medals for valor. Meanwhile, you described your own version of combat, after all those deferments, as having dodged venereal diseases while hopping from one bed to the next.

Can’t anyone around here take a joke?

No, Mueller isn’t just a prosecutor; he’s the stand-in for all the bluebloods and public service types who never respected you, who never thought you belonged, who always thought you too coarse and outer-borough, too much of a carnival barker, to join their clubs or sit on their boards.

He’s trying to destroy you, Mr. President. He thinks you’re beneath the office.

And if you’re going to stop him, what better time to do it than now, just as Jim Comey’s big memoir hits the virtual shelves? You don’t need me to tell you what getting rid of Mueller would do to the Comey Sanctification Tour. This is what you’re better at than anyone alive — commandeering the news cycle.

This isn’t hard. Look at all the people you’ve already fired. Priebus, Flynn, Tillerson, Price, McMaster — the list goes on.

Of course, you didn’t actually fire them, eye to eye. That’s something you only do on TV, when people are watching and you get to humiliate some wannabe TV star. Your style is more to let them know on Twitter, or in the fake news.Michael who?

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders distanced President Trump from attorney Michael Cohen at Friday’s briefing, hours after court filings confirmed that Cohen is under criminal investigation in the Southern District of New York.

When asked whether Trump continues to have confidence in Cohen, Sanders responded, “I know that the president has worked with him as a personal attorney. Beyond that, I don’t have anything else.”

On Friday, the Wall Street Journal reported that, in addition to arranging a $130,000 payment to porn star Stormy Daniels, Cohn helped facilitate a $1.6 million payment to a former Playboy model on behalf of Trump confidant Elliott Broidy, a deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee.

Sanders was asked whether Trump still held Cohen in confidence. “I would refer you to Mr. Cohen’s personal attorney,” she replied.

In a follow up question, another reporter asked whether Cohen was still the president’s personal attorney.

“I’m not sure, Jill,” Sanders, who came to the briefing armed with pre-written statements that anticipated questions about former FBI director James Comey’s new memoir, said. “I’d have to check.”

Cohen has been a focal point for special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible ties between the Trump presidential campaign and the Russian government. That inquiry spurred a raid on Cohen’s offices and New York hotel room, the seizure of his files and computers as part of a separate FBI investigation into Cohen’s business dealings.

Although usually identified as Trump’s attorney, Cohen also has extensive holdings in real estate and the taxi business, which are believed to be part of the investigation. On Friday, Cohen asked a Manhattan judge to block the review of the documents seized by the FBI, arguing that some of them may be protected by attorney-client privilege.

Cohen has made a point of proclaiming his loyalty to Trump in public. While Sanders’s chilly comments suggested the White House was putting some distance between them, the New York Times reported Friday that Trump called Cohen privately to “check in.”

Read more from Yahoo News:As reports broke Friday that President Trump had issued a pardon of I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, former Vice President Dick Cheney’s chief of staff, the immediate questions for many Americans were: Why Libby and why now?

“Before his conviction, Mr. Libby had rendered more than a decade of honorable service to the Nation as a public servant at the Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the White House. His record since his conviction is similarly unblemished, and he continues to be held in high regard by his colleagues and peers,” a White House press release announcing the pardon stated. “In light of these facts, the President believes Mr. Libby is fully worthy of this pardon. ‘I don’t know Mr. Libby,’ said President Trump, ‘but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly. Hopefully, this full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.’”

Libby was convicted in 2007 of perjury, obstruction of justice and making false statements in testimony he gave to a grand jury in what became known as “the Plame Affair.” The case against Libby stemmed from an investigation into who leaked the identity of CIA officer Valerie Plame to reporters.

Libby’s 30-month prison sentence was commuted by then-President George W. Bush, his voting rights were restored and he was allowed to resume his legal practice. So why did Trump feel it imperative to act?

Message to Comey

The special counsel who investigated the leak of Plame’s identity was Patrick Fitzgerald, who, it turns out, was appointed by none other than James Comey, the then-deputy attorney general. Comey, whose new book on Trump hits stores on Tuesday, was fired by the president in 2017 for reasons the former FBI director alleges in his memoir.

For Plame, the message behind the pardon is clear:

“It’s very clear that this is a message he is sending, that you can commit crimes against national security and you will be pardoned,” she told MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.”

John Bolton

Trump’s new national security adviser, John Bolton, was staunchly critical of Bush for not giving Libby a full pardon.

“If you think it was a miscarriage of justice, then you think it shouldn’t have gone to a jury to begin with,” Bolton said, according to the New York Times.

Bolton started his new job this week, and may have come to the White House with the pardon of Libby as a top priority.

‘Stay strong’

Trump famously told his former national security adviser Michael Flynn to “stay strong” in the Russia investigation. Flynn ultimately pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the special counsel.

But Trump’s former campaign chair, Paul Manafort, is facing multiple indictments and not cooperating. Could issuing a pardon to Libby be a way of signaling that those who “stay strong” will be rewarded?

It’s a small world

The idea for pardoning Libby may have also been presented by Victoria Toensing, who together with her husband, Joe diGenova, was briefly in line to join Trump’s legal team. Toensing, it turns out, also happens to represent Libby.

Joe diGenova, who recently considered joining Trump’s legal team confirms his wife, Victoria Toensing, who was also looking at joining the Trump legal team, is Scooter Libby’s attorney. — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) April 13, 2018

Read more from Yahoo News:President Trump tore into James Comey on Friday in a pair of tweets aimed at discrediting Comey’s new book, which details the former FBI director’s interactions with the president before his firing last year.

“James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired.

“He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted,” the president continued. “He lied to Congress under OATH. He is a weak and untruthful slime ball who was, as time has proven, a terrible Director of the FBI. His handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case, and the events surrounding it, will go down as one of the worst ‘botch jobs’ of history. It was my great honor to fire James Comey!”

Trump’s comments came a day after numerous excerpts from Comey’s upcoming memoir, “A Higher Loyalty,” were published online. In them, Comey describes Trump as “untethered to the truth,” likens him to a mob boss, and recounts a meeting with the president in which the former FBI director says Trump asked him to investigate salacious allegations from the so-called dossier to disprove the claims to first lady Melania Trump.

Related: What’s in James Comey’s book?

“He brought up what he called the ‘golden showers thing’ … adding that it bothered him if there was ‘even a 1 percent chance’ his wife, Melania, thought it was true,” Comey writes, according to an excerpt published by the New York Post. “He just rolled on, unprompted, explaining why it couldn’t possibly be true, ending by saying he was thinking of asking me to investigate the allegation to prove it was a lie. I said it was up to him.”

“He said, you know, ‘If there’s even a 1 percent chance my wife thinks that’s true, that’s terrible,’” Comey told ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos in a separate interview, parts of which aired Friday morning. “And I remember thinking, ‘How could your wife think there’s a 1 percent chance you were with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow?’ I’m a flawed human being, but there is literally zero chance that my wife would think that was true. So, what kind of marriage to what kind of man does your wife think there’s only a 99 percent chance you didn’t do that?”

Stephanopoulos asked Comey whether believed Trump’s denial.

“Honestly, I never thoughts these words would come out of my mouth, but I don’t know whether the current president of the United States was with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow in 2013,” Comey said. “It’s possible, but I don’t know.”

Comey said he first informed Trump about the dossier in a private meeting that followed one where U.S. intelligence officials briefed Trump on Russian interference in the 2016 election.

According to Comey, Trump appeared less concerned by Russia’s attack on the election than how it could undermine his victory.

“President-elect Trump’s first question was to confirm that it had no impact on the election,” Comey said. “And then the conversation, to my surprise, moved into a PR conversation about how the Trump team would position this, and what they could say about this, with us still sitting there.”

Comey added: “That’s just not done. That the intelligence community does intelligence; the White House does PR and spin.”

The former FBI director also said he was struck by what the Trump team didn’t ask.

“No one to my recollection asked, ‘So, what’s coming next from the Russians? How might we stop it?'” Comey said.

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Evan Vucci/AP,donald Trump via Twitter, AP, Flatiron Books, J. Scott Applewhite/AP)It is a judicial bureaucracy that American citizens almost never encounter, with 58 courtrooms around the country and more than 300 judges, whose decisions affect the lives of thousands of people each year. There are limited avenues for appeal and no constitutional right to a lawyer for anyone caught up in it.

Welcome to the immigration court system, the latest focus of the Trump administration’s crackdown on illegal immigration — less visible than a border wall and less dramatic than midnight raids by ICE officers, but arguably more important.

The sequence of events that lead to immigration court vary from case to case, especially now, as even broader categories of people — ranging from convicted criminals to recent border crossers seeking asylum, longtime residents and even a few U.S. citizens — are getting caught up in the Trump administration’s sweeping enforcement dragnet. But for all who find themselves in front of an immigration judge, pitted against a government attorney, often without legal representation of their own, the offense and punishment are always the same: unlawful presence in the United States, which in and of itself is not a crime, and deportation to their country of origin.

In a 2014 op-ed for CNN, Dana Leigh Marks, a longtime immigration court judge and then president of the National Association for Immigration Judges, described the high-stakes scenario that plays out daily in immigration courts as “death penalty cases heard in traffic court settings.”

And unlike the criminal and civil court systems, immigration courts have no constitutional independence — they’re part of the Justice Department — so the administration can do what it wants with them.

Two developments within the past week have alarmed immigration advocates, who’ve long fretted over how Attorney General Jeff Sessions, an outspoken immigration hardliner, might wield his influence over this already byzantine court system. First, the head of the DOJ’s Executive Office for Immigration Review decreed that judges in the system would have to work faster, setting a quota of 700 cases a year each, as part of a broader effort by Sessions to help ease the court’s massive backlog of 650,000 cases.

Then, according to a report in the Washington Post, the Justice Department put in motion plans to suspend the Legal Orientation Program, which informs detained immigrants of the procedures they face and their legal rights, without offering legal representation. The program is being halted for a review of its effectiveness, according to the Post, but advocates for immigrants suspect a different motive.

“This seems like part of a concerted effort by the Department of Justice to basically make it easier to deport people,” Hasan Shafiqullah, head attorney for the Legal Aid Society of New York’s Immigration Law Unit, said of the decision to halt the program.

Shafiqullah is among the immigration attorneys and advocates who’ve been keeping a close watch on the Justice Department’s actions with regard to immigration courts, which have largely been eclipsed by more headline-grabbing news like the Trump’s attempt to ban citizens of majority-Muslim countries from entering the U.S. and the recent deployment of national guard troops to the Southwest border.

Last summer, amid ramped up ICE arrests and high-profile deportations, the chief immigration judge at the DOJ’s Executive Office for Immigration Review issued a memo to all immigration court judges calling for speeding up deportation cases by cutting back on continuances, temporary halts in proceedings to give detained immigrants time to find a lawyer or to allow their attorneys to prepare for a hearing.

Alhough the memo stated that it was “not intended to limit the discretion of an Immigration Judge,” legal advocates like Shafiqullah saw it as part of an effort to make it harder for immigrants or their attorneys to challenge deportations.It may be 2018’s marquee Senate race.

But the battle for Arizona’s open U.S. Senate seat — one of two prime Democratic pickup opportunities — could do more than decide control of the world’s greatest deliberative body, where Republicans currently rule by a single, precarious vote.

It could also answer this cycle’s most pressing political question: How do candidates from both parties solve a problem like Donald Trump?

The contenders vying to replace retiring Republican senator Jeff Flake are all characters in their own right. On the GOP side, there’s a fighter-pilot-turned-congresswoman (Rep. Martha McSally), an osteopath-turned-right-wing-rabble-rouser (former state Sen. Kelli Ward) and America’s most notorious immigration hardliner (former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio). And on the left, the likely Democratic nominee, Rep. Krysten Sinema, is not only the first openly bisexual member of Congress, she’s also the most bipartisan Democrat in the House.

As they jockey for advantage, all of these candidates are positioning themselves vis-à-vis Trump in ways that defy national assumptions, making the contest a counterintuitive — and revealing — testing ground, where the new realities of running for office in the Age of Trump are being worked out in real time.

At first, the Republican primary contest seemed to pose a fairly straightforward question: Did Flake’s brand of traditional movement conservatism — limited government, muscular internationalism, Christian moralism — still have a place in the Republican Party, or was Trump’s brash, amoral, “America First” approach now the future of the GOP?

When Flake, a vocal Trump critic, bowed out last October — polls showed he could not defeat Ward, his resolutely pro-Trump opponent — the question seemed to be settled.

GOP Senate candidate Kelli Ward at a campaign rally in Scottsdale, Ariz. (Photo: Ross D. Franklin/AP) More

It wasn’t until Ward attracted two challengers of her own in early 2018 that a new narrative began to emerge.

The first to announce was Arpaio. If Ward aspires to be Trump in miniature — she endorses his entire agenda, from building the border wall to halting Muslim immigration to repealing Obamacare to ending sanctuary cities — then Arpaio promises to out-Trump Trump himself.

A former U.S. Army soldier, police officer and DEA agent, Arpaio, 85, is most famous for his incendiary 24-year tenure as America’s self-styled “toughest sheriff.” During that time he made headlines with his round-’em-up immigration raids (which contributed, according to the Justice Department, to the worst pattern of racial profiling in U.S. history), his brutal, self-described “concentration camp” Tent City (which was designed to alleviate prison overcrowding), and his refusal to investigate alleged child sex crimes.

Since launching his Senate bid in January, Arpaio has not moderated his politics one iota. “I don’t see any cops in the Senate,” he said during a recent appearance in Nashville. “They’re all lawyers, politicians. It’s time to get a law enforcement guy. The right one.”

Arpaio seems convinced that his path to victory runs to the right of Ward — and even Trump. The president, for instance, has insisted that he wants to protect so-called Dreamers, people who immigrated illegally to the U.S. as children. Arpaio says they should be deported. And while Ward and even Trump, a former birther himself, have both affirmed that Barack Obama was, in fact, born in the United States — “He was our legitimate president,” Ward said in January — Arpaio has hinted that he would revive his groundless crusade to discredit Obama’s birth certificate if elected.

“I don’t talk about it anymore, until I become a U.S. senator,” Arpaio told a group of supporters at the Western Conservative Conference in Phoenix last month. “So, I’m kind of dropping that right now. But, I’m going to tell you something — 100 percent, we proved that’s a fake document.”Former FBI director James Comey’s account of his turbulent career in law enforcement, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” is officially out next week, but reviews and excerpts began appearing Thursday. The book is scathing about Comey’s interactions with President Trump, who fired Comey last year over his investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and its possible links to the Trump campaign.

Comey calls the president “unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values.” Here are some excerpts from the book as reported in the media:

_____

“This president is unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values. His leadership is transactional, ego driven and about personal loyalty.”

_____

“We are experiencing a dangerous time in our country, with a political environment where basic facts are disputed, fundamental truth is questioned, lying is normalized and unethical behavior is ignored, excused or rewarded.”

_____

Discussing a White House meeting including Trump and then chief of staff Reince Priebus, comparing it to organized crime sit-downs he recalled from his career as a prosecutor: “The silent circle of assent. The boss in complete control. The loyalty oaths. The us-versus-them worldview. The lying about all things, large and small, in service to some code of loyalty that put the organization above morality and above the truth.”

_____

On Hillary Clinton, who believes Comey’s public statements may have cost her the election: “I have read she has felt anger toward me personally, and I’m sorry for that. I’m sorry that I couldn’t do a better job explaining to her and her supporters why I made the decisions I made.”

“It is entirely possible that, because I was making decisions in an environment where Hillary Clinton was sure to be the next president, my concern about making her an illegitimate president by concealing the restarted investigation bore greater weight than it would have if the election appeared closer or if Donald Trump were ahead in all polls. But I don’t know.”

_____

Meeting with President Obama after the election: “I picked you to be FBI director because of your integrity and your ability. I want you to know that nothing — nothing — has happened in the last year to change my view.”

On the verge of tears, Comey told Obama, “Boy, were those words I needed to hear. … I’m just trying to do the right thing.”

“I know,” Obama said. “I know.”

_____

On the salacious account in the “Steele dossier” of Trump, in Russia, asking prostitutes to urinate on a hotel bed: “He brought up what he called the ‘golden showers thing’ … adding that it bothered him if there was ‘even a one percent chance’ his wife, Melania, thought it was true.”

Trump “strongly denied the allegations, asking — rhetorically, I assumed — whether he seemed like a guy who needed the service of prostitutes. He then began discussing cases where women had accused him of sexual assault, a subject I had not raised. He mentioned a number of women, and seemed to have memorized their allegations.”

_____

“I’m a germaphobe,” Trump told him. “There’s no way I would let people pee on each other around me. No way.”

_____

Read more from Yahoo News:A former Trump World Tower doorman says Donald Trump fathered a child with a former maid and that the parent company of the National Enquirer paid him $30,000 to keep silent about it.

Dino Sajudin, the former doorman, met with a reporter from the publisher of the National Enquirer in 2015, according to the New Yorker, and agreed to detail his claim that the then presidential candidate may have fathered a child with a former housekeeper in the late 1980s.

Sajudin reportedly signed a contract with American Media, Inc., that carried a $1 million penalty for disclosing details of the explosive story without the publisher’s permission. AMI has been known to purchase the rights to stories in order to keep them from appearing, to avoid embarrassing public figures. In 2016, the publisher paid former Playboy model Karen McDougal $150,000 for the rights to her story of an extramarital affair with Trump, then never published it.

In a statement released Wednesday, Sajudin responded directly to the story published by the New Yorker:

Today I awoke to learn that a confidential agreement I had with AMI (the National Enquirer) with regard to a story about President Trump was leaked to the press. I can confirm that while I was working at Trump World Tower I was instructed not to criticize President Trump’s former housekeeper due to a prior relationship she had with President Trump which produced a child.

The reported payment to Sajudin is the latest twist in a pattern of hush money being paid to Trump accusers, and federal investigators have been interested to shine light on the communications between AMI and Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen.

An FBI raid on Cohen’s office and hotel room this week is said to be focused on a $130,000 hush money payment made by Cohen to adult film actress Stormy Daniels.

While National Enquirer editor Dylan Howard said last summer that Sajudin’s story “lacked any credibility,” other staffers at the tabloid told the Associated Press that the paper didn’t seek to substantiate the claim.

Sajudin also passed a polygraph test administered by the National Enquirer, but that doesn’t seem to impress his ex-wife, who granted an interview to the New York Daily News.

“He’s infamous for making up stories,” Nikki Benfatto told the Daily News. “He’s seen the chupacabra. He’s seen bigfoot. One of our friends who passed away, he saw him too, walking down the street.”

Read more from Yahoo News:CIA Director Mike Pompeo, President Trump’s pick for secretary of state, confirmed to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Thursday that he has been interviewed by Robert Mueller for the special counsel’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia.

“I spoke with special counsel Mueller, who interviewed me,” Pompeo said in his testimony before the committee, which is considering his nomination. “I cooperated.”

NBC News first reported Pompeo’s interview with the special counsel in January.

Pompeo — who was part of a key meeting during which Trump reportedly asked for help intervening in the investigation — refused to answer questions about his conversations with the president or with Mueller. But Pompeo insisted that Trump never asked him to do anything he’d consider improper.

“I’m not going to talk about the conversations the president and I had,” Pompeo said.

The Washington Post reported last year that in March 2017, Pompeo and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats attended a briefing at the White House with Trump and officials from several government agencies. According to the paper, when the meeting was over, Trump told Pompeo and Coats to stay in the room, and the president proceeded to complain about the Russia investigation, which was being led by then-FBI Director James Comey.

Days earlier, Comey had testified before Congress that Trump himself was a subject of the federal investigation.

Pompeo said the article’s suggestion that Trump asked him “to do anything improper is false.”

CIA Director Mike Pompeo testifies before a Senate Foreign Relations Committee confirmation hearing on his nomination to be secretary of state on Capitol Hill on Thursday. (Photo: Reuters/Leah Millis) More

When asked by Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., whether Trump had asked him to “do anything” about the Russia probe, Pompeo replied, “I don’t recall.”

“I don’t recall what he asked me that day,” Pompeo said. “But I have to tell you, I’m with the president an awful lot. He has never asked me to do anything that I’d consider remotely improper.”

Menendez then asked Pompeo whether Trump had ever discussed the FBI or special counsel’s investigation with him.

“Senator, again, I’m not going to talk about private conversations I’ve had with the president,” Pompeo said, insisting that he wasn’t asserting executive privilege in refusing to discuss his conversations with Trump.

Later, when pressed by Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., about his recollection, Pompeo said, “If he asked me to do something inappropriate, I’d remember.”

Pompeo began the confirmation hearing by declaring that as secretary of state, “job No. 1 is to represent the president.”

And when asked by Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., whether he would resign if Trump were to fire Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, Pompeo said he would not.

“I haven’t given that question any thought, and my instincts tell me no,” he said. “My instincts tell me that my obligation to continue to serve as America’s senior diplomat will be more important at increased times of political domestic turmoil.”

After discussing his belief that previous secretaries of state had stayed the course, Pompeo said he was “confident” that not resigning if there were interference into the special counsel’s investigation was the path that he would take. Coons urged Pompeo to give it some more thought.

Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., pressed him on the same question later in the hearing and Pompeo offered the same answer, stating that administration officials did not resign during President Bill Clinton’s impeachment.

Pompeo also repeatedly refused to say whether he agrees with Trump’s characterization of the Mueller investigation as “an attack on our country.”

“These are complex legal issues the special counsel is involved in,” Pompeo said. “I have done my best as CIA director to separate each and every element of it. It is a minefield.”

— With Yahoo News’ Christopher Wilson contributing reporting

Read more from Yahoo News:A day after warning Russia in a tweet that “missiles will be coming” to Syria, President Trump said on Twitter that an airstrike was not necessarily imminent.

“Never said when an attack on Syria would take place,” Trump tweeted early Thursday. “Could be very soon or not so soon at all! In any event, the United States, under my Administration, has done a great job of ridding the region of ISIS. Where is our ’Thank you America?’”

Trump has been weighing U.S. military options in Syria in the wake of Saturday’s chemical attack that killed at least 40 people. Syrian President Bashar Assad is suspected to have ordered the attack as part of an ongoing war against both the Islamic State group and various antigovernment forces. According to the U.N. envoy for Syria, an estimated 400,000 Syrians have been killed since 2011.

Defense Secretary James Mattis said Wednesday that the U.S. and its allies are mulling how to respond to the attack.

“We are still assessing the intelligence, ourselves and our allies,” Mattis said. “We’re still working on this.”

But Trump’s early morning tweet Wednesday suggested U.S. military action was inevitable.

“Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”

The tweet was criticized by some lawmakers and military analysts who questioned the wisdom of the president publicly telegraphing his move — something Trump denounced former President Barack Obama for doing.

President Trump speaks during a meeting with senior military leaders at the White House in Washington, D.C., on Monday. At right is new national security adviser John Bolton. (Photo: Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images) More

On Thursday, Trump also pushed back against a New York Times report that he “sought to fire” special counsel Robert S. Mueller, who is leading the federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.

“If I wanted to fire Robert Mueller in December, as reported by the Failing New York Times, I would have fired him,” Trump tweeted. “Just more Fake News from a biased newspaper!”

Trump has made no secret about his hostility toward Mueller in recent days. Trump has repeatedly assailed Mueller’s probe as “corrupt” and “fake,” while suggesting that it is responsible for “much of the bad blood with Russia.” He has also attacked the former FBI chief as “conflicted.”

Earlier this year, the Times reported that Trump ordered Mueller’s firing last June but “ultimately backed down” after White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II threatened to resign in protest.

This week, CNN reported that Trump is considering firing Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversees Mueller, after the FBI raided the office and hotel of Trump’s longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen. Federal agents were reportedly looking for information related to Cohen’s hush-money payment to porn star Stormy Daniels on the eve of the 2016 presidential election, as well as any information related to the “Access Hollywood” tape on which Trump brags on a hot mic about sexually assaulting women.

Trump called the raid a “a total witch hunt.”

“It’s a disgraceful situation,” Trump told reporters before a meeting of military officials at the White House on Monday night. “It’s an attack on our country, in a true sense. It’s an attack on what we all stand for.”

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Mouneb Taim/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images, Ted Aljibe/AFP/Getty ImagesNicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images)On Wednesday, a day of growing peril in a part of the world where Russian and American forces sometimes confront each other, the president who campaigned on never telegraphing his intensions to adversaries decided to taunt Russia with the threat of a missile attack. “Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” President Trump tweeted Wednesday morning as an anxious world watched to see if the Syrian crisis will escalate out of control. “Get ready, Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart.’”

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

President Trump’s tweets fly in the face of the norms that even during the Cold War kept the two great nuclear powers from needlessly provoking each other. They risk further inflaming a conflict that has already drawn in regional and world powers in a dizzying nest of alignments. With the common enemy the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) on the brink of defeat, those opposing forces are increasingly coming into conflict as they jockey for position and territorial control inside Syria.

Just this year, U.S. forces in Syria have battled Russian mercenaries who attacked their base, reportedly at the direction of the Kremlin, and killed more than 100 of them. In northern Syria, U.S. troops and their Kurdish allies remain engaged in a tense face-off with the military forces of Turkey, a NATO ally. This week, Israeli warplanes attacked a military base in Syria, where Iran coordinates its militias, killing four Iranian military advisers.

A Syrian child receives medical treatment after the Assad regime forces allegedly conducted a poisonous gas attack in Damascus, April 7, 2018. (Photo: Halil el-Abdullah/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) More

This week’s suspected chemical weapons attack by Syrian forces, which reportedly killed more than 40 people in a rebel-held stronghold near Damascus, and President Trump’s telegraphed determination to respond militarily, have set the escalation cycle spinning even faster.

“The new normal is that President Trump uses Twitter as direct fire to convey his feelings and intent to audiences at home and abroad, bypassing the United States’ entire foreign policy and diplomatic apparatus. It’s now understood around the world that those tweets are a direct pipeline to his thinking, which is an unprecedented and significant development,” said retired Lt. Gen. David Barno, a former senior U.S. commander in Afghanistan, and currently the distinguished practitioner in residence at American University’s School of International Service.

In weighty matters of war, the president’s tweets may offer a direct conduit to the Trumpian id, but they are unfiltered by a careful calculation of U.S. interests and the risks involved, or by a strategy guiding the actions of a great power. Instead, Trump’s tweets and off-the-cuff pronouncements, Barno notes, reveal “a constant tension between U.S. military commanders who want to sustain a military presence in Syria to consolidate their gains from the defeat of ISIS, and a commander in chief who instinctively dislikes U.S. boots on the ground, but is willing to use bombs and missiles to achieve his goals. Those two ideas remain very much in tension in this administration, and I’m not sure that adds up to a strategy.”

Retired U.S. Army Gen. Barry McCaffrey, left, and Gen. Joseph Votel. (Photos: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images; Samuel Corum/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) More

In the wake of Trump’s recent dismissal of his secretary of state and national security adviser, the administration’s Syrian policy has devolved into incoherence. In January, then Secretary of State Rex Tillerson articulated a Syrian strategy that envisioned an indefinite U.S. military presence to achieve ambitious goals, including removing Syrian strongman Bashar Assad from power, returning millions of Syrian refugees to their homes, rolling back Iranian influence and securing Syrian chemical weapons.House Speaker Paul Ryan shocked Washington by announcing Wednesday that he will not seek reelection, saying he wanted to spend more time with his children. The Wisconsin Republican expressed pride in his party’s accomplishments, which includes delivering on tax-cut promises, and told reporters that House Republicans, considered in danger of losing their majority in November, could run on that record.

The 115th United States Congress formed on Jan. 3, 2017, during the final weeks of Barack Obama’s presidency, and will conclude on Jan. 3, 2019, after two years of Donald Trump in office. Ryan is expected to remain speaker for the remainder of the year, an unusually long lame-duck period for a retiring speaker. Yahoo News contacted political scientists and governance experts to see what such an early announcement means for his remaining time and the GOP’s future.

Nolan McCarty, chair of the department of politics and a professor at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, said there aren’t any recent examples for comparison. He pointed out that John Boehner’s three-week period between announcing his resignation and stepping down was the longest in recent memory.

“The others who resigned were replaced very quickly. You really have to go back to the 1920s, when there was a period in which a speaker was a lame duck for any period of time,” McCarty said. “Before we changed the Constitution, there would be these long lame-duck sessions of Congress between the November elections and the March inaugurations.” The 20th Amendment, ratified in 1933, moved the start of congressional terms from March 4 to Jan. 3.

House Speaker Paul Ryan announces he will not seek reelection in November, April 11, 2018. (Photo: Aaron P. Bernstein/Reuters) More

The unusual nature of lame-duck sessions is why McCarty suspects there may be some pressure on Ryan to resign and allow for a quicker replacement. On the other hand, he said, it took three weeks to replace Boehner because of infighting among the Republican Party’s many factions. The person the party settled on was Ryan.

“I suspect that might still be true, so they might have a difficult time trying to figure out who will replace Ryan. In the meantime, I think he will just hold the office and not accomplish very much,” he said.

Sarah Binder, professor of political science at George Washington University, agreed that Ryan’s exit is unusual for modern American politics. Others speakers have stepped down abruptly amid scandals (Jim Wright­, Newt Gingrich, Bob Livingston) or when their party has lost control (Dennis Hastert, John Boehner). Therefore, she said, history doesn’t provide us with a great roadmap for what to expect going forward.

One possible path for Ryan, Binder said, is continuing to fight for Republican control of the House, which would include fundraising and trying to persuade his fellow Republicans from retiring. But she said there are questions about how effective he can be at that since “he’s just waved the white flag and jumped ship, even though he’s postponed the jumping of the ship.”

Another option, she said, is for Ryan to significantly distance himself from Trump.

House Speaker John Boehner, right, stands with his successor Rep. Paul Ryan in October 2015. (Photo: Andrew Harnik/AP) More

“We do have other retiring Republicans, who once they decided to sever their connection with the voters, have been a little more willing to speak up. Is that Paul Ryan? I don’t know. It depends in part on what he sees as his future,” Binder said.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg dismissed the suggestion by several Republican lawmakers on Wednesday that the social media network is biased against conservative content — but admitted he is worried about the issue of censorship on the platform in general.

“This is one of the areas that, frankly, I’m worried we’re not doing a good job at right now,” Zuckerberg said in his testimony before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The principle that we’re a platform for all ideas is something I care very deeply about. I am worried about bias … and I agree that this is a serious issue.”

Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., cited the recent example of Facebook rejecting a Catholic university’s ad showing Jesus on the cross, which outraged some religious conservatives. The company apologized and subsequently accepted the image.

“That it happened at all is deeply disturbing,” she told Zuckerberg. “Could you tell what was so shocking, sensational or excessively violent about the ad to cause it to be initially censored?”

“It sounds like we made a mistake there, and I apologize for that,” Zuckerberg replied. “With the amount of content in our systems and the current systems that we have in place to review — we make a relatively small percent of mistakes in content review, but that’s too many. And this is an area where we need to improve.”

Zuckerberg continued: “I wouldn’t extrapolate from a few examples to assuming that the overall system is biased. I get how people can look at that and draw that conclusion, but I don’t think that reflects the way we’re trying to build this system or what we have seen.”

The 33-year-old executive said that while the complaints cited by the panel were about conservative content, he hears from both sides.

“I can assure you that there are a lot of folks who think we make content moderation mistakes — and content review mistakes — of liberal content as well,” Zuckerberg said.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies at a House Energy and Commerce hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) More

Appearing before the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committee on Tuesday, Zuckerberg faced pointed questions from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, about Facebook’s perceived liberal bias.

“Does Facebook consider itself to be a neutral public forum?” Cruz asked. “It’s just a simple question. … Do you consider yourself a neutral public forum? Or are you engaged in political speech, which is your right under the First Amendment?”

“Our goal is not to engage in political speech,” Zuckerberg replied.

Cruz said that “there are a great many Americans who, I think, are deeply concerned that Facebook and other tech companies are engaged in a pervasive pattern of bias and political censorship.” Cruz noted that Diamond and Silk, sisters who have become famous for their pro-Trump videos, recently said that their Facebook page was blocked after the site determined it to be “unsafe to the community.”

On Wednesday, Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, told Zuckerberg that he has received several questions from constituents about the duo on his own Facebook page.

“Please ask Mr. Zuckerberg why is Facebook biased against conservative bloggers such as Diamond and Silk? Facebook called them ‘unsafe’ to the community,” Barton said, reading one message from his phone aloud. “That is ludicrous. They hold conservative views. That isn’t unsafe.”

“In that specific case, our team made an enforcement error,” Zuckerberg replied. “And we have already gotten in touch with them to reverse it.”

Zuckerberg’s appearances before the congressional panels come in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which exposed personal information from as many as 87 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica, a data mining firm used by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, was able to access user data through a third-party quiz app.

Rep. Billy Long, R-La., said his constituents are not concerned about the data breach — but are worried about censorship.

“I represent 751,000 people,” Long said. “I’m not getting the outcry from my constituents about what’s going on with Cambridge Analytica.”

Read more from Yahoo News:When Speaker Paul Ryan announced Wednesday that he would not seek reelection this fall, some on both the left and the anti-Trump right expressed hope that Ryan would now be free to stand up against President Trump.

“With his newfound political freedom,” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in a statement, “I hope the Speaker uses his remaining time in Congress to break free from the hard-right factions of his caucus that have kept Congress from getting real things done.”

Ana Navarro, a Republican CNN contributor who has spoken out against President Trump, had a similar reaction: “Paul Ryan has 8 months as Speaker,” wrote Navarro on Twitter. “He’s finally free of political chains. Time to put country over Party. He should remove Nunes from Intel Committee, have a vote on Dream Act, move legislation to protect Mueller, and denounce Trump’s unpresidential actions & words at every turn.”

House Speaks Paul Ryan greets President Trump onstage at the National Republican Congressional Committee March Dinner at the National Building Museum on March 20, 2018, in Washington, D.C. (Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images) More

These comments echo those from many during the 2016 campaign, when Ryan was billed as a “white knight” who could potentially step in and wrest the nomination away from Trump. Instead, Ryan endorsed Trump in June 2016, stating that he felt “confident he would help us turn the ideas in this agenda into laws to help improve people’s lives.” Efforts by the media to discern daylight between the speaker and the Republican nominee on policy went nowhere. The Washington Post declared Trump’s tax plan “Paul Ryan on steroids.”

There is a widespread belief in Washington, unsupported by any evidence, that Ryan, with his measured demeanor and reputation as a deep thinker on policy, is a closet never-Trumper. The speaker has occasionally denounced Trump’s more racist statements, but according to 538’s voting tracker, Ryan has voted with the president 100 percent of the time. Ryan has repeatedly dodged questions about Trump’s tweets and urged others to ignore them.

Ryan has worked in Washington since graduating from college in 1992, and during that time he has built a reputation that seldom aligns with his actions, or even his stated beliefs. His ideological lodestar is Objectivism, a philosophy of radical individualism promulgated by the 20th century writer Ayn Rand, and his main policy agenda has been cutting income taxes, especially on the rich. Ryan has said that he makes his interns read Rand’s novel “Atlas Shrugged,” and told a group dedicated to the author that she’s the reason he got involved in public service.

Ryan’s greatest feat was selling himself as a deficit hawk while continually supporting measures that would cost the federal government money. He was elevated by policy groups and political pundits as a foil to Obama, who adopted the Wisconsin congressman’s claims that the Democratic administration’s additions to the deficit were simply untenable. This did not stop Ryan for voting for deficit expanding programs put forth by President George W. Bush, including tax cuts and Medicare Part D, which analysts have cited as adding hundreds of billions to the deficit.

Studies found that Ryan’s proposed budgets would add trillions to the deficit. During his 2012 vice presidential run, one focus group didn’t believe Ryan’s proposed budget — eliminating Medicare while cutting taxes for the wealthy — was real, simply refusing to “believe any politician would do such a thing.” Still, Ryan was lauded for his proposals, winning a 2010 award for his fiscal discipline from a budget watchdog group and earning Politico’s 2011 “Health Care Policymaker of the Year” honor for his plan to repeal Obamacare.WASHINGTON — House Speaker Paul Ryan’s decision to leave Congress at the end of the year touched off immediate speculation Wednesday about who will replace him as the Republican leader — and about what it means for President Trump and Democratic hopes to retake the House in the coming midterms.

House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., is regarded as the logical choice. He is close to Trump, having courted the president longer than most other high-profile Republicans. The two get along well and talk often.

But the Californian has historically been viewed suspiciously by the most conservative members of Congress.

Early indications from the White House offered a mixed picture. Some officials told Yahoo News that McCarthy has the inside track. One former White House official said either McCarthy or Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana could get Trump’s backing.

“Both Kevin McCarthy and Scalise are very popular with the White House and close to the president,” the ex official said.

One Trump ally said the president prefers House Majority Whip Scalise.

“Scalise … [is] a better story, and DJT loves narratives,” this person said.

Scalise’s story is that he was shot last June in an attack on a congressional baseball practice, surviving a near-fatal wound to the hip. He was one of four people wounded in the shooting, but the only member of Congress. It has made him something of a mythic figure in the House.

Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., who leads the hardline Freedom Caucus, could also make a play for the speakership or one of the other top posts in leadership.

Speaker of the House Paul Ryan announcing his retirement on a press conference on Capitol Hill on April 11. (Photo: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images) More

One of the most senior Republican members of Congress predicted to Yahoo News that McCarthy would be able to lock up the speakership, or the Republican leadership if Democrats win back the House early next year, after the fall elections. Ryan plans to serve out his term.

It’s likely that the issue won’t be settled for a while.

“Members are in shock and not sure if they really mentally want to go there yet,” said one House Republican leadership aide.

Ryan said he was leaving primarily to spend more time with his teenage children before they leave home. “I did not seek this job. I took it reluctantly. But I have given this job everything I had. And I have no regrets,” he said.

“I think we have achieved a heck of a lot,” he said.

Ryan’s departure is a short-term victory of sorts for Trump. The speaker and the president have worked together since Trump’s election, but were never close or all that comfortable with each other.

Ryan opposed Trump during the Republican primary and waited until June 2016, after Trump had locked up the nomination, to endorse him. A Ryan ally at the time told Yahoo News that the speaker “despises” Trump and “hates his guts.”

Ryan worked with the president to pass tax reform legislation, which nonetheless fell short of Ryan’s hope for a permanent restructuring of the tax code. Ryan has continued to criticize Trump at times, although he hasn’t opposed him on legislation.

The same Ryan ally lamented that the speaker’s retirement was “a casualty of the party surrendering its ground to a celebrity outsider.”

“Ryan is the kind of figure a party should strive to create: ideologically minded but temperamentally moderate, elected in a swing district, worked his way up in Congress, not a flashy performer. He is bowing out to a different model of leadership,” the ally said.

But Ryan may have more freedom to speak his mind now that he is not running for reelection. One prominent conservative Trump critic expressed her hope that Ryan would do so.

“He’s finally free of political chains. Time to put country over Party. He should remove [Rep. Devin] Nunes from Intel Committee, have a vote on Dream Act, move legislation to protect [Special Counsel Robert] Mueller, and denounce Trump’s unpresidential actions & words at every turn,” Ana Navarro said on Twitter.President Trump on Wednesday issued a stern warning to Russia, tweeting that he will direct an air strike at Syria in response to last week’s chemical attack and chastising the Kremlin for its support of Syrian President Bashar Assad.

“Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”

Trump added: “Our relationship with Russia is worse now than it has ever been, and that includes the Cold War. There is no reason for this. Russia needs us to help with their economy, something that would be very easy to do, and we need all nations to work together. Stop the arms race?”

Russia’s military has propped up Assad’s regime as it wages a multiway war against both the so-called Islamic State and various antigovernment forces. According to the UN Envoy for Syria, an estimated 400,000 Syrians have been killed since 2011.

The Russian foreign ministry responded in a Facebook post, saying “smart missiles should fly toward terrorists, not legal government.”

Trump later suggested the “bad blood” between Washington and Moscow has been caused by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller’s ongoing federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. The president also called Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who signed off on Trump’s decision to fire FBI Director James Comey last year, “conflicted.”

Much of the bad blood with Russia is caused by the Fake & Corrupt Russia Investigation, headed up by the all Democrat loyalists, or people that worked for Obama. Mueller is most conflicted of all (except Rosenstein who signed FISA & Comey letter). No Collusion, so they go crazy! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018





Trump has been weighing U.S. military options in Syria in the wake of Saturday’s chemical attack that killed at least 40 people. But during a meeting with national security officials at the White House earlier this week, Trump told reporters he would not publicly telegraph his moves — something he criticized former President Barack Obama for doing.

“We’re making decisions as to what we do with respect to the horrible attack,” Trump said Monday. “And it will be met. And it will be met forcefully. When I will not say because I don’t like talking about timing.”

Last week, the White House announced that the U.S. military mission in Syria “is coming to a rapid end.” That was before Saturday’s attack.

Trump lashed out at Russia and Iran for its support of Assad the next day — notably calling out Russian President Vladimir Putin by name.

“President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad,” Trump tweeted. “Big price to pay.”

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)By Brian Prowse-Gany and Joyzel Acevedo

At the Greenberg Law office in Brooklyn, framed advertisements reading “The Real Call Saul” hang on the walls between tongue-in-cheek posters for movies like “Devil’s Advocate.” A small, wiry-haired man sits at a desk with sheets of notes splayed out before him. “My name is Howard Greenberg,” he says. “I’m a poor excuse for a criminal defense attorney. And that’s everything you need to know.”

Greenberg is no one to mess with: He has garnered a reputation as one of Manhattan’s craziest – and most successful – defense lawyers, having represented roughly 4,000 defendants and produced an unusually high number of acquittals and dismissals in cases where such results were thought to be impossible.

“It would be my privilege to defend a Nazi,” Greenberg says. “It would be my privilege to defend Charles Manson. You don’t go to the Hall of Fame winning easy cases. … You hone your skills defending the dregs of the Earth, so that the occasionally really innocent person gets the benefit of your work.”

Greenberg’s outrageous courtroom tactics and ability to successfully represent the lowest of the low has led to the press dubbing him the real “Better Call Saul.” “I disavow that comparison because Saul routinely cheats,” he says. “And I only cheat from time to time.”

In this week’s episode of Yahoo News’ Unfiltered, we sit down with infamous criminal defense attorney Howard Greenberg, a man who isn’t afraid to defend the worst of the worst and who believes the justice system and the government are far from perfect.

“We are called upon every day to turn water into wine,” Greenberg says of his profession, in which he has labored for almost 30 years. “We get paid to do the impossible, and I say impossible because we go up against the other side and they have all the cards,” he says about the criminal justice system.

“Everything is admissible if the prosecutor wants it,” Greenberg adds, “and nothing’s admissible if the defense attorney wants it.”

One of Greenberg’s most high-profile cases was the murder of 8-year-old Leiby Kletzky by Levi Aron on July 11, 2011. Nicknamed the Butcher of Bensonhurst, Aron kidnapped Kletzky as he was walking to school and subsequently murdered and dismembered him. What was unusual about the crime was that it occurred within the insular, relatively safe Brooklyn Hasidic community.

Levi Aron appears in court for sentencing with his lawyer, criminal defense attorney Howard Greenberg. More

Greenberg, one of several attorneys representing Aron, spurred harsh backlash when he implied that the defendant’s actions resulted from his being a product of inbreeding. “Experts told us to explore the theme [of inbreeding],” he explains. “And when I said that to the press, the whole world went crazy.” One such criticism came from New York state Assemblyman Dov Hikind, who called Greenberg a “miserable, self-hating Jew.”

Such comments seem to slide off Greenberg. “The only way to ensure that the truly innocent person gets a fair shake is to defend the worst among us,” he says. “There’s no such thing as going too far. If you don’t go over the line, you’re not doing your job.”

Indeed, Greenberg is no stranger to taking things to a whole new level when it comes to defending a client, even getting himself admitted to the emergency room the day before a big trial. “I go there for the ancillary purpose of getting one of these,” he says, showing off a medical wristband. “And that will adorn my wrist throughout the pendency of the trial. Sometimes if I have back-to-back trials … I keep it on for months at a time.”

“I want the jury to wonder, why am I wearing this? In my fantasy mind I imagine them .. saying to themselves, ‘My God, this lawyer must be under treatment for cancer. And look how heroic this son of a bitch is here.’”

Even Greenberg’s office freezer plays a role. “You’ll see names on pieces of paper,” he says while looking at thin strips of paper curled up among the ice, explaining that this is part of a plan to “cast spells on my adversaries.”What can we learn about the current debate over guns from earlier public health crises? (Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Getty Images (2); background from top left: Nam Y. Huh/AP, MediaPunch/IPX/AP, Alex Brandon/AP, Joe Skipper/AP, MediaPunch/IPX/AP, Nam Y. Huh/AP, Hoo-me.com / MediaPunch/AP (2), Manuel Valdes/AP)

Survivors of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., joined the chorus of Americans denouncing the National Rifle Association’s (NRA) influence on elected officials over the gun control issue. But will this moment lead to substantive change in the nation’s gun laws, or will it be subsumed into Washington’s larger gridlock — forgotten until the next school shooting, as has happened repeatedly in the past?

There may be a clue in the history of the regulation of another dangerous product, cigarettes. Gun-control groups say the firearms industry is using some of the same tactics the tobacco lobby used to forestall regulations for most of the 20th century, including the suppression of potentially damaging research and casting the issue in terms of “rights” and “freedom.” But the record shows that over the course of several decades, and over the well-funded opposition of a powerful industry, public-health advocates (mostly) prevailed in the battle against smoking.

“The tobacco industry is built on profiting from a product that kills and causes disease for hundreds of thousands of Americans. Unfortunately, the same is true for the gun industry. While there are legitimate uses for firearms — for example in the military — for the most part firearms, particularly assault weapons, are marketed to civilians in a way which increases and continues a legacy of death and injury,” Mark Pertschuk, former president of Americans for Nonsmokers’ Rights and former legislative director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, said to Yahoo News.

A study published in the American Journal of Medicine in February 2016 found that Americans are 10 times more likely than citizens of other developed countries to be shot and killed. Researchers from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the University of Nevada at Reno analyzed World Health Organization mortality data for 23 high-income nations. Though the U.S. only had half the population of the other 22 nations combined, Americans accounted for 82 percent of all gun deaths. Gun-murder rates are 25 times higher in the U.S. than in similar wealthy nations. The U.S. also accounted for 90 percent of all women, young adults (under 25) and children killed with a gun.

The analogy isn’t only to the tobacco industry. Trade groups have clear missions to support the interests of their industries they represent. But public health advocates take issue when misinformation is knowingly propagated and, from their perspective, profits are privileged over people. For instance, Coca-Cola and other soda companies long promoted the notion that exercise rather than healthful nutrition choices could solve the obesity epidemic. They still challenge soda taxes and other initiatives intended to reduce consumption.

Barron Lerner, a professor of medicine and public health at NYU Langone Health, said the tobacco industry’s mission for many years was to obfuscate the data that shows cigarette smoking causes lung cancer. Although the tobacco industry lobbied in Washington, he said, its greatest accomplishment wasn’t buying the cooperation of members of Congress or finding advocates from tobacco-growing states so much as it was complicating the issue — creating enough doubt in the public to delay the implementation of antismoking measures.

“There are historical moments where things get so bad, the carnage is so much and the rhetoric is so absurd that there’s finally movement,” Lerner told Yahoo News. “I think we’re ready for some type of a similar movement in the world of guns.”Some questions about Facebook are too tricky for its chief executive to answer.

In an extraordinary exchange during Tuesday’s testimony before Congress, Mark Zuckerberg hedged on whether the company tracked its users across devices, even when they may not be logged into the social media platform.

Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., asked Facebook’s founder and CEO whether the company collected “user data through cross-device tracking.”

“Senator, I believe we do link people’s accounts between devices, in order to make sure that their Facebook, Instagram and other experiences can be synced between devices.” Zuckerberg said.

Blunt followed up, asking if that included “offline data, data tracking that’s not necessarily linked to Facebook.”

“Senator, I want to make sure that we get this right, so I’m going to have my team follow up with you on this afterwards,” Zuckerberg responded.

“That doesn’t seem that complicated to me,” Blunt responded. “Now you understand this better than I do, but maybe you can explain to me why that’s that complicated. Do you track devices that an individual who uses Facebook has, that is connected to the device that they use for their Facebook connection but not necessarily connected to Facebook?”

“I’m not sure of the answer to that question,” Zuckerberg said.

Photo: Carolyn Kaster/AP More

Pressure has increased for the company to explain its terms of service and data gathering operations since details about the company’s 2016 election cooperation with Cambridge Analytica have become public, and the bulk of Tuesday’s session was devoted to questions about privacy.

In an article published last week by the American Civil Liberties Union, senior staff technologist Daniel Kahn Gillmor argued that Facebook was tracking him even though he wasn’t a member of the social network.

“While I’ve never ‘opted in’ to Facebook or any of the other big social networks, Facebook still has a detailed profile that can be used to target me,” Gillmor wrote. “I’ve never consented to having Facebook collect my data, which can be used to draw very detailed inferences about my life, my habits, and my relationships. As we aim to take Facebook to task for its breach of user trust, we need to think about what its capabilities imply for society overall. After all, if you do #deleteFacebook, you’ll find yourself in my shoes: non-consenting, but still subject to Facebook’s globe-spanning surveillance and targeting network.”

At Tuesday’s hearing, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., turned the tables on Zuckerberg, asking whether the Facebook founder would be comfortable sharing the name of the hotel where he stayed in Washington the night before.

“No, I would probably not choose to do that publicly here,” Zuckerberg responded.

“I think that may be what this is all about,” Durbin replied. “Your right to privacy. The limits of your right to privacy and how much you give away in modern America in the name of ‘connecting people around the world.’”

Read more from Yahoo News:Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg told lawmakers on Capitol Hill Tuesday that staffers at the social media giant have been interviewed by members of special counsel Robert Mueller’s office investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.

When asked by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., whether anyone at Facebook had been interviewed by Mueller’s team, Zuckerberg said, “Yes,” adding: “I have not.”

“I want to be careful here because our work with the special counsel is confidential,” Zuckerberg said. “And I want to make sure that in an open session I’m not revealing something that is confidential.”

The 33-year-old initially said the company had been served subpoenas by Mueller’s office before clarifying that he was not aware of whether it had been subpoenaed or was voluntarily cooperating with the probe.

“I actually am not aware of a subpoena — I believe that there may be,” Zuckerberg said. “But I know we are working with them.”

Earlier this year, Mueller charged 13 Russian individuals and three Russian companies with interfering in the U.S. election process in a broad plot that involved the proliferation of so-called fake news and disinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms.

In January, Wired magazine reported that Mueller’s office interviewed at least one Facebook employee who was assigned to Trump’s presidential campaign to help shape his ad messaging on the platform.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg takes his seat to testify before a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees in Washington on Tuesday. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais) More

Zuckerberg’s appearance before members of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees came in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which exposed personal information from as many as 87 million users. Cambridge Analytica, a data mining firm used by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, was able to access user data on Facebook through a third-party quiz app.

A Cambridge Analytica whistleblower, Christopher Wylie, said the company used the information to build psychological profiles in order to target voters with political ads on Facebook.

In written testimony released Monday, Zuckerberg apologized for the Cambridge Analytica breach and a host of other issues related to election interference.

“It’s clear now that we didn’t do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well,” Zuckerberg wrote. “That goes for fake news, foreign interference in elections, and hate speech, as well as developers and data privacy. We didn’t take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake. It was my mistake, and I’m sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I’m responsible for what happens here.”

Read more from Yahoo News:Laura Ingraham returned to Fox News this week, but the bad news for her continued.

The exodus of advertisers from Ingraham’s show resumed following her weeklong hiatus, meant to stem the loss of sponsors unwilling to associate their brands with her program.

Allstate Insurance and SlimFast diet drink announced that they would no longer run ads on the program in the wake of the host’s attack on Parkland, Fla., high school student David Hogg.

“We have stopped advertising on the Laura Ingraham show and have no plans to resume in the near future,” SlimFast tweeted on Tuesday. “We are also monitoring all ad placements carefully.”

An Allstate memo obtained by the Wrap detailed the company’s decision to pull its ads from Ingraham’s show.

“Laura Ingraham’s comments about David Hogg were inconsistent with our values,” the memo stated. “Allstate believes in youth empowerment and last year helped 5 million youth find their voices and take action to make the world better. We have not advertised on ‘The Ingraham Angle’ since Wednesday. We hope our youth can help us find a path to a less divisive future.”

In a March 28 tweet that has not been removed from her Twitter feed, Ingraham mocked Hogg — whose views on gun control she disagrees with — for not being accepted by some colleges.

“David Hogg Rejected By Four Colleges To Which He Applied and whines about it. (Dinged by UCLA with a 4.1 GPA…totally predictable given acceptance rates.),” Ingraham wrote.

Amid withering criticism, Ingraham issued a qualified apology to Hogg a day later.

“Any student should be proud of a 4.2 GPA —incl. @ DavidHogg111. On reflection, in the spirit of Holy Week, I apologize for any upset or hurt my tweet caused him or any of the brave victims of Parkland,” Ingraham wrote on Twitter.

So far, 22 companies have pulled their ads from the show, including TripAdvisor, Expedia, Nestlé, Stich Fix, Hulu, Jenny Craig, Office Depot, Honda, Miracle-Ear, Liberty Mutual, Principal Financial Group, Ruby Tuesday, Entertainment Studios, Nutrish, Johnson & Johnson and Wayfair.

In her return to her program on Monday, Ingraham blasted the effort to target her advertisers.

“Their efforts are Stalinist, pure and simple,” the embattled host said. “Their objective is a total transformation of American society, not through rational discourse and open debate but through personal demonization and silencing.”

Ingraham’s argument didn’t resonate with at least one advertiser that, until last night, was still a sponsor.

“We were unaware that our ad would be running on The Laura Ingraham Angle last night,” Blue Apron, a home delivery meal service, wrote on Twitter Tuesday. “We will no longer be advertising on the show, and will be working with our media buying partners to more closely monitor where our ads appear going forward.”

Read more from Yahoo News:President Trump renewed speculation about the fate of the Russia investigation after the FBI raided the office of his personal attorney on Monday, saying in response to a question about firing special counsel Robert Mueller, “We’ll see.”

Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, told Fox Business Tuesday that if Trump did, “it would be suicide.”

“I have confidence in Mueller. The president ought to have confidence in Mueller,” Grassley said. “I think the less the president says about this whole thing, the better off he would be.”

Trump sounded off about Mueller before a meeting of military officials at the White House on Monday night after learning that the FBI had raided the office and hotel of his personal lawyer Michael Cohen. The New York Times reported that federal agents were looking for information related to Cohen’s hush-money payment to porn star Stormy Daniels on the eve of the 2016 presidential election, as well as possible payments to other women by Cohen or the National Enquirer.

“So I just heard that they broke into the office of one of my personal attorneys, a good man, and it’s a disgraceful situation,” Trump began. “It’s a total witch hunt. I’ve been saying it for a long time.

“It’s an attack on our country, in a true sense. It’s an attack on what we all stand for,” Trump continued, saying the raids represent “a whole new level of unfairness.”

On CNN, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., dismissed the idea that the special counsel is on a “witch hunt.”

“I don’t see any reason to fire Mr. Mueller,” Graham said. “I know the president’s frustrated. He’s told me over and over he did nothing to collude with the Russians. He thinks this thing is running, you know, outside the boundaries here. But at the end of the day, Mueller needs to continue to do his job without political interference, and I think most members of Congress view it that way.”

But Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., accused Mueller of abusing his authority with the raids on Cohen.

“Going after someone’s personal attorney is a great overstep, I think, in the authority of the prosecutor,” Paul said on Fox News. “The president’s right: It’s a witch hunt.”

Paul was asked if he felt the same way about Ken Starr, the former Whitewater independent counsel, investigating President Bill Clinton’s relationship with Monica Lewinsky in the 1990s. “You know, I may not have been as consistent back then,” Paul replied.

Fox Business host Lou Dobbs, a close friend of Trump, said on Monday night that Mueller “is now a man that has to be brought under control.”

“I would fire the SOB in three seconds if it were me,” Dobbs added.

At the White House, Trump was asked by reporters why he doesn’t “just fire” Mueller.

“Well, I think it’s a disgrace what’s going on. We’ll see what happens. But I think it’s really a sad situation when you look at what happened. And many people have said, ‘You should fire him,’” Trump said. “So we’ll see what happens. I think it’s disgraceful, and so does a lot of other people. This is a pure and simple witch hunt.”

The president could take steps to remove the special counsel, but he would need the cooperation of Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. It’s believed that Rosenstein, who reportedly threatened to quit because of the way the dismissal of FBI Director James Comey was handled, would not back such a move.

“The special counsel is not an unguided missile,” Rosenstein told USA Today last month. “I don’t believe there is any justification at this point for terminating the special counsel.”

On CNN Monday night, former Trump adviser Steve Cortes said Trump ought to clean house.

“The president needs to fire Jeff Sessions,” Cortes said. “He needs to fire Rosenstein. He needs to fire Mueller. This is a sham investigation. This is his own Justice Department trying to usurp the power of the presidency.”

“Any attempt to remove Rod Rosenstein will create the exact same constitutional crisis as if he fired special counsel Mueller,” Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer said. “Don’t do it. Do not go down this path. For the sake of our country, we plead with you.”

Appearing on CNN Tuesday, Sen. Tammy Baldwin, D-Wis., said that if Trump were to move in the direction of removing Mueller, “certainly we’d be looking at some sort of constitutional crisis.”President Trump continued to fume on Twitter early Tuesday about the FBI raid on the office and hotel of his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, after federal agents reportedly seized information related to Cohen’s hush-money payment to porn star Stormy Daniels.

The FBI raids were carried out on a referral from special counsel Robert Mueller, who is investigating the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia.

“Attorney-client privilege is dead!” Trump declared in one tweet, echoing Cohen’s own pushback against the record seizures.

George Conway — a lawyer and husband to Trump aide Kellyanne Conway — pointed out that the law allows for search warrants to be issued when an attorney is a subject of an investigation. According to the Washington Post, Cohen is under federal investigation for “possible bank fraud, wire fraud and campaign finance violations.”

Trump also returned to his oft-used phrase to describe Mueller’s probe.

A TOTAL WITCH HUNT!!! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 10, 2018





Cohen recently admitted to facilitating a $130,000 payment to Daniels on the eve of the 2016 presidential election. At the time, Daniels accepted the money in exchange for not going public with her claim of having sex with Trump in 2006. Cohen insists the payment was legal and that he was not reimbursed by the Trump Organization or the Trump campaign, though some legal experts say the payment may have violated campaign finance law.

But Trump appears staunchly in the corner of Cohen, one of his closest allies. Before a meeting of military officials at the White House early Monday evening, Trump addressed the raids without being prompted by reporters — launching into a five-minute monologue condemning them.

“So, I just heard that they broke into the office of one of my personal attorneys, a good man, and it’s a disgraceful situation,” Trump began. “It’s a total witch hunt. I’ve been saying it for a long time.”

“Here we are talking about Syria and we’re talking about a lot of serious things,” the president continued. “We’re the greatest fighting force ever. And I have this witch hunt constantly going on for over 12 months now — and actually, much more than that. You could say it was right after I won the nomination, it started. And it’s a disgrace. It’s frankly a real disgrace. It’s an attack on our country, in a true sense. It’s an attack on what we all stand for.

Trump added: “When I saw this and when I heard it — I heard it like you did — I said, that is really now on a whole new level of unfairness.”

At a meeting with military leaders, President Trump pauses while speaking about special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation and the FBI raid on Michael Cohen’s office. (Photo: Carlos Barria/Reuters) More

Mueller was appointed special counsel 11 months ago after Trump fired FBI Director James Comey, who had been overseeing the investigation. At the time, Trump declared it the “single greatest witch hunt of a politician in American history!”

At the White House on Monday, Trump was asked by reporters why he doesn’t “just fire” Mueller. The president could take steps to remove the special counsel, but would need the backing of Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. It’s believed that Rosenstein, who reportedly threatened to quit because of the way the Comey dismissal was handled, would not back such a move.

“Well, I think it’s a disgrace what’s going on. We’ll see what happens. But I think it’s really a sad situation when you look at what happened. And many people have said, ‘You should fire him,’” Trump said. “So we’ll see what happens. I think it’s disgraceful, and so does a lot of other people. This is a pure and simple witch hunt.”

Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, told CNN on Tuesday that “it would be suicide” for Trump to fire Mueller.

“I think the less the president says about this whole thing, the better off he will be,” Grassley added. “And I think Mueller is a person of stature and respected and I respect him.”

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP, Evan Vucci/AP, Seth Wenig/AP)Russia, the Syrian regime's top ally, reacted strongly to the air strikes launched by the United States and its allies on Damascus and Homs early Saturday, warning of "consequences."

The U.S., U.K. and France launched a series of strikes on three locations identified as critical to Syria's production of chemical weapons, including a scientific research center in Damascus, and a production facility and storage facility in Homs, according to U.S. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joseph Dunford.

The Russian embassy in U.S. wasted no time in reacting to the strikes late Friday in the U.S., with Ambassador Anatoly Antonov saying on Twitter, "The worst apprehensions have come true. Our warnings have been left unheard."

"A pre-designed scenario is being implemented," the statement continued. "Again, we are being threatened. We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences."

Statement by the Ambassador Antonov on the strikes on #Syria:

A pre-designed scenario is being implemented. Again, we are being threatened. We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences.

All responsibility for them rests with Washington, London and Paris. pic.twitter.com/QEmWEffUzx



— Russia in USA ???? (@RusEmbUSA) April 14, 2018

Russia has long been an ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Syria serves as an important access point to the Mediterranean Sea for Russian ships and a hub for Russia in the Middle East. They have also supplied Assad with the military resources necessary to fight back against the rebels who nearly overthrew him in 2011.

President Donald Trump criticized Russia in his address to the country following the launch of missiles on Friday night.

"In 2013, President [Vladimir] Putin and his government promised the world that they would guarantee the elimination of Syria's chemical weapons," Trump said. "Assad's recent attack, and today's response, are the direct result of Russia's failure to keep that promise."

Putin responded to Saturday's attack by calling the strikes "an act of aggression against a sovereign state that is at the forefront of the fight against terrorism."

"The current escalation of the situation around Syria has a devastating impact on the whole system of international relations," Putin said. "History will put everything in its place, and it has already laid heavy responsibility on Washington for bloody reprisals against Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya."

Putin also called for an emergency meeting U.N. Security Council.

US strike in Syria targets military, chemical weapons sites

Syria missile strike: The major players in the region

PHOTO: In this handout provided by the U.S. Navy,The guided-missile destroyer USS Porter fires a Tomahawk land attack missile at a Syrian military airfield in retaliation for a chemical attack that killed civilians, April 7, 2017. (Ford Williams/U.S. Navy via Getty Images, FILE) More

Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova accused the U.S. of attacking Syria when it finally had a chance for peace and likened the evidence of the April 7 chemical weapons attack in Douma -- which precipitated Friday's attack -- to the evidence that justified the 2003 Iraq invasion.

"It takes a very peculiar kind of uniqueness to attack Syria’s capital at a time when the country has received a chance for peace at last," Zakharova said, in a statement translated by TASS, the Russian state-owned news agency.

"The White House says its certainty about a chemical attack by Damascus relies on the media, on reports about symptoms, videos and photos, and also on credible information," she continued. "After that statement, the U.S. and all other Western media should be aware of their responsibility for what has happened. Fifteen years ago the White House used a test tube and its secretary of state. Now Washington has used the media instead of the test tube."

Konstantin Kosachev, the head of International Affairs for Russia’s Federal Assembly, said, "There can be only one political assessment: It is a blatant violation of international law and it is an attack on a sovereign state without proper grounds.”

PHOTO: Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, shakes hand with Syrian President Bashar Assad in the Bocharov Ruchei residence in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Russia, Nov. 20, 2017. (Mikhail Klimentyev, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) More

Story ContinuesRussia, the Syrian regime's top ally, reacted strongly to the air strikes launched by the United States and its allies on Damascus and Homs early Saturday, warning of "consequences."

The U.S., U.K. and France launched a series of strikes on three locations identified as critical to Syria's production of chemical weapons, including a scientific research center in Damascus, and a production facility and storage facility in Homs, according to U.S. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joseph Dunford.

The Russian embassy in U.S. wasted no time in reacting to the strikes late Friday in the U.S., with Ambassador Anatoly Antonov saying on Twitter, "The worst apprehensions have come true. Our warnings have been left unheard."

"A pre-designed scenario is being implemented," the statement continued. "Again, we are being threatened. We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences."

Statement by the Ambassador Antonov on the strikes on #Syria:

A pre-designed scenario is being implemented. Again, we are being threatened. We warned that such actions will not be left without consequences.

All responsibility for them rests with Washington, London and Paris. pic.twitter.com/QEmWEffUzx



— Russia in USA ???? (@RusEmbUSA) April 14, 2018

Russia has long been an ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Syria serves as an important access point to the Mediterranean Sea for Russian ships and a hub for Russia in the Middle East. They have also supplied Assad with the military resources necessary to fight back against the rebels who nearly overthrew him in 2011.

President Donald Trump criticized Russia in his address to the country following the launch of missiles on Friday night.

"In 2013, President [Vladimir] Putin and his government promised the world that they would guarantee the elimination of Syria's chemical weapons," Trump said. "Assad's recent attack, and today's response, are the direct result of Russia's failure to keep that promise."

Putin responded to Saturday's attack by calling the strikes "an act of aggression against a sovereign state that is at the forefront of the fight against terrorism."

"The current escalation of the situation around Syria has a devastating impact on the whole system of international relations," Putin said. "History will put everything in its place, and it has already laid heavy responsibility on Washington for bloody reprisals against Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya."

Putin also called for an emergency meeting U.N. Security Council.

US strike in Syria targets military, chemical weapons sites

Syria missile strike: The major players in the region

PHOTO: In this handout provided by the U.S. Navy,The guided-missile destroyer USS Porter fires a Tomahawk land attack missile at a Syrian military airfield in retaliation for a chemical attack that killed civilians, April 7, 2017. (Ford Williams/U.S. Navy via Getty Images, FILE) More

Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova accused the U.S. of attacking Syria when it finally had a chance for peace and likened the evidence of the April 7 chemical weapons attack in Douma -- which precipitated Friday's attack -- to the evidence that justified the 2003 Iraq invasion.

"It takes a very peculiar kind of uniqueness to attack Syria’s capital at a time when the country has received a chance for peace at last," Zakharova said, in a statement translated by TASS, the Russian state-owned news agency.

"The White House says its certainty about a chemical attack by Damascus relies on the media, on reports about symptoms, videos and photos, and also on credible information," she continued. "After that statement, the U.S. and all other Western media should be aware of their responsibility for what has happened. Fifteen years ago the White House used a test tube and its secretary of state. Now Washington has used the media instead of the test tube."

Konstantin Kosachev, the head of International Affairs for Russia’s Federal Assembly, said, "There can be only one political assessment: It is a blatant violation of international law and it is an attack on a sovereign state without proper grounds.”

PHOTO: Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, shakes hand with Syrian President Bashar Assad in the Bocharov Ruchei residence in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Russia, Nov. 20, 2017. (Mikhail Klimentyev, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) More

Story ContinuesSince the U.S. and its allies attacked Syria Friday in response to alleged chemical weapons attacks on its own people, there has been a significant surge in Russian trolls promoting fake news, the Pentagon announced Saturday.

“As Secretary Mattis said last night, the Russian disinformation campaign has already begun,” Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said in a press conference. “There has been a 2,000 percent increase in Russian trolls in the last 24 hours. Therefore, we will keep you all abreast of the facts moving forward.”





Trending: The Specter of a Trump-Kim Summit Looms Large Over China and the Korean Peninsula | Opinion

Secretary of Defense James Mattis on Friday announced the press briefing would be held Saturday for the specific reason of dispelling false information about the strike coming from Russia, which is a key ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.

“Based on recent experience, we fully expect a significant disinformation campaign over the coming days by those who have aligned themselves with the Assad regime,” said Mattis, adding that White and Lieutenant General Kenneth F. McKenzie would speak “in effort to maintain transparency and accuracy.”

White said the U.S. does not seek conflict with Syria but “cannot allow such grievous violations of international law” and attacks on innocent Syrians.

Don't miss: Trump Tricked Into Obstruction Of Justice By Firing Comey, According to GOP Congressman's Conspiracy Theory

“We will not stand by passively while Assad, backed by Russia and Iran, ignores international law,” White said. “We call upon Russia to honor its commitment to ensure the Assad regime dismantles its chemical weapons program and never uses chemical weapons again.”

The U.S. had no coordination or agreements with Russians before the strike, McKenzie said.

“We’re not cooperating with them in Syria. We don’t want to get into a fight with them, they don’t want to get in a fight with us,” he said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin called strike an "act of aggression against a sovereign state" and claimed they went against the United Nations charter. Putin demanded a United Nations Security Council immediately.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekSince the U.S. and its allies attacked Syria Friday in response to alleged chemical weapons attacks on its own people, there has been a significant surge in Russian trolls promoting fake news, the Pentagon announced Saturday.

“As Secretary Mattis said last night, the Russian disinformation campaign has already begun,” Pentagon spokeswoman Dana White said in a press conference. “There has been a 2,000 percent increase in Russian trolls in the last 24 hours. Therefore, we will keep you all abreast of the facts moving forward.”





Trending: The Specter of a Trump-Kim Summit Looms Large Over China and the Korean Peninsula | Opinion

Secretary of Defense James Mattis on Friday announced the press briefing would be held Saturday for the specific reason of dispelling false information about the strike coming from Russia, which is a key ally of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.

“Based on recent experience, we fully expect a significant disinformation campaign over the coming days by those who have aligned themselves with the Assad regime,” said Mattis, adding that White and Lieutenant General Kenneth F. McKenzie would speak “in effort to maintain transparency and accuracy.”

White said the U.S. does not seek conflict with Syria but “cannot allow such grievous violations of international law” and attacks on innocent Syrians.

Don't miss: Trump Tricked Into Obstruction Of Justice By Firing Comey, According to GOP Congressman's Conspiracy Theory

“We will not stand by passively while Assad, backed by Russia and Iran, ignores international law,” White said. “We call upon Russia to honor its commitment to ensure the Assad regime dismantles its chemical weapons program and never uses chemical weapons again.”

The U.S. had no coordination or agreements with Russians before the strike, McKenzie said.

“We’re not cooperating with them in Syria. We don’t want to get into a fight with them, they don’t want to get in a fight with us,” he said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin called strike an "act of aggression against a sovereign state" and claimed they went against the United Nations charter. Putin demanded a United Nations Security Council immediately.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekHillary Clinton encouraged international women journalists who have faced threats for scrutinizing strongmen including Russian President Vladimir Putin—as American media have from her 2016 election opponent President Donald Trump—to keep fighting.

Related: Michelle Obama Says Hillary Clinton Was ‘Way More Perfect’ for President Than Trump

The former presidential candidate and secretary of state moderated the keynote conversation at the Women in the World summit Friday in New York City on “The Gathering Threat” of authoritarian regimes and “what it’s like to be a journalist, especially a woman journalist in the difficult environment.”

Trending: ‘Fortnite’ Leaks Reveal Shopping Carts, Comet Mode & Sticky Grenades

“We will talk about the strongmen that these journalists cover, that we read about every single day,” Clinton said, and “what we can do to get the world back on a track that is more respectful of human rights and freedom.”

Clinton brought up the topic of what typically happens to women in authoritarian regimes, to highlight the importance of the contributions that journalists on the panel have made.

“Very often, the tightening up affects all groups, but it also affects half of the population because all of a sudden women’s roles and women’s leadership is diminished,” she said.

Don't miss: Keith Raniere: Alleged Cult Leader and NXIVM Co-Founder Held in Custody on Sex Trafficking Charges

Clinton said that Putin has “mixed authoritarianism with corruption to keep a group of oligarchs in power” and invited the journalists to share their experiences.





Yevgenia Albats, editor-in-chief of The New Times in Russia, said that “authoritarian regimes are based on dividing people, putting people against each other,” and that it’s important for the U.S. as a democracy to set an example.

Most popular: Who Is Matt Bevin? Kentucky Governor "Guarantees" A Child Was Sexually Assaulted Because Teacher Rallies Cancelled School

“What’s important to understand is that you shouldn’t be frightened, that they thrive on weakness,” Albats said. “Your strength is our future freedom.”

Clinton commended the women for a “really lively” panel and said there were many lessons and takeaways from their experiences and observations.

“One of them is, when you are confronting the potential loss of the values you are about, your freedom,” she said, “Do not be quiet, do not stop talking, do not stop voting, do not give in to those whose views are the opposite of what you believe.”

“I hope this conversation will continue and I look forward to talking to them in the future,” Clinton said, “To make sure that the strongmen don’t send us back. We’re not going.”

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekHillary Clinton encouraged international women journalists who have faced threats for scrutinizing strongmen including Russian President Vladimir Putin—as American media have from her 2016 election opponent President Donald Trump—to keep fighting.

Related: Michelle Obama Says Hillary Clinton Was ‘Way More Perfect’ for President Than Trump

The former presidential candidate and secretary of state moderated the keynote conversation at the Women in the World summit Friday in New York City on “The Gathering Threat” of authoritarian regimes and “what it’s like to be a journalist, especially a woman journalist in the difficult environment.”

Trending: ‘Fortnite’ Leaks Reveal Shopping Carts, Comet Mode & Sticky Grenades

“We will talk about the strongmen that these journalists cover, that we read about every single day,” Clinton said, and “what we can do to get the world back on a track that is more respectful of human rights and freedom.”

Clinton brought up the topic of what typically happens to women in authoritarian regimes, to highlight the importance of the contributions that journalists on the panel have made.

“Very often, the tightening up affects all groups, but it also affects half of the population because all of a sudden women’s roles and women’s leadership is diminished,” she said.

Don't miss: Keith Raniere: Alleged Cult Leader and NXIVM Co-Founder Held in Custody on Sex Trafficking Charges

Clinton said that Putin has “mixed authoritarianism with corruption to keep a group of oligarchs in power” and invited the journalists to share their experiences.





Yevgenia Albats, editor-in-chief of The New Times in Russia, said that “authoritarian regimes are based on dividing people, putting people against each other,” and that it’s important for the U.S. as a democracy to set an example.

Most popular: Who Is Matt Bevin? Kentucky Governor "Guarantees" A Child Was Sexually Assaulted Because Teacher Rallies Cancelled School

“What’s important to understand is that you shouldn’t be frightened, that they thrive on weakness,” Albats said. “Your strength is our future freedom.”

Clinton commended the women for a “really lively” panel and said there were many lessons and takeaways from their experiences and observations.

“One of them is, when you are confronting the potential loss of the values you are about, your freedom,” she said, “Do not be quiet, do not stop talking, do not stop voting, do not give in to those whose views are the opposite of what you believe.”

“I hope this conversation will continue and I look forward to talking to them in the future,” Clinton said, “To make sure that the strongmen don’t send us back. We’re not going.”

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekDonald Trump engaged in a months-long effort to secure the loyalty of then-FBI Director James Comey in a series of meetings and phone calls that began in the presidential transition period -- behavior Comey likens to that of a mafia boss, Comey writes in a book set for release next week.

Those efforts included a now-famous, private White House dinner with Trump just a week after the president was inaugurated, in which Trump, Comey writes, told him: “I need loyalty. I expect loyalty.”

Comey writes that to him, “The demand was like Sammy the Bull’s Cosa Nostra induction ceremony,” referring to Salvatore “Sammy the Bull” Gravano, a former leader of the Gambino crime family, whose testimony ultimately helped convict mob boss John Gotti.

Comey responded with silence, he writes in the book, and Trump moved the conversation along. Later in the dinner, Trump returned to the subject: “I need loyalty.”

“You will always get honesty from me,” Comey writes that he responded.

“That’s what I want, honest loyalty,” Trump said.

“You will get that from me,” Comey responded.

The book, “A Higher Loyalty,” is Comey’s first extensive public accounting of his handling of investigations affecting Trump and Hillary Clinton – and the circumstances around his firing by Trump – since his congressional testimony last year.

In it, Comey paints Trump as someone who is “unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values," and who is "ego driven and about personal loyalty.”

ABC News’ Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos is conducting the first interview with Comey about the book, airing in a special edition of “20/20” on Sunday, April 15, at 10 p.m. ET.

PHOTO: A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership by James Comey (Flatiron Books) More

A few weeks before his private dinner with the president, shortly before his inauguration, Comey had a similar feeling about mob loyalty pledges during his first meeting with Trump, he writes. Comey and other top intelligence officials were at Trump Tower to brief the president-elect, Vice President-elect Mike Pence, and a small circle of their top aides on Russian efforts to influence the election.

Rather than ask about how to meet the threat from Russia, Comey writes, Trump, Pence and incoming White House aides Reince Priebus and Sean Spicer quickly focused on “how they could spin what we’d just told them,” debating “how to position these findings for maximum political advantage.”

“I sat there thinking, Holy crap, they are trying to make each of us ‘amica nostra’ – friend of ours. To draw us in,” Comey writes. “As crazy as it sounds, I suddenly had the feeling that, in the blink of an eye, the president-elect was trying to make us all part of the same family and that Team Trump had made it a ‘thing of ours.’”

Weeks later, after the private dinner with Trump in which Comey says he agreed to give the president “honest loyalty,” Comey had another private Oval Office meeting with Trump. This time, he writes, Trump appeared to ask him to drop an FBI inquiry of fired National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.

“He is a good guy,” Trump told Comey, according to the book. “I hope you can let this go.”

“I did not interrupt the president to protest that what he was asking was inappropriate, as I probably should have,” Comey writes. “But if he didn’t know what he was doing was inappropriate, why had he just ejected everyone, including my boss [Attorney General Jeff Sessions] and the vice president, from the room so he could speak with me alone?”

PHOTO: ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos sits down with former FBI director James Comey for an exclusive interview that will air during a primetime '20/20' special on Sunday, April 15, 2018 on the ABC Television Network. (Ralph Alswang/ABC News) More

Story ContinuesDonald Trump engaged in a months-long effort to secure the loyalty of then-FBI Director James Comey in a series of meetings and phone calls that began in the presidential transition period -- behavior Comey likens to that of a mafia boss, Comey writes in a book set for release next week.

Those efforts included a now-famous, private White House dinner with Trump just a week after the president was inaugurated, in which Trump, Comey writes, told him: “I need loyalty. I expect loyalty.”

Comey writes that to him, “The demand was like Sammy the Bull’s Cosa Nostra induction ceremony,” referring to Salvatore “Sammy the Bull” Gravano, a former leader of the Gambino crime family, whose testimony ultimately helped convict mob boss John Gotti.

Comey responded with silence, he writes in the book, and Trump moved the conversation along. Later in the dinner, Trump returned to the subject: “I need loyalty.”

“You will always get honesty from me,” Comey writes that he responded.

“That’s what I want, honest loyalty,” Trump said.

“You will get that from me,” Comey responded.

The book, “A Higher Loyalty,” is Comey’s first extensive public accounting of his handling of investigations affecting Trump and Hillary Clinton – and the circumstances around his firing by Trump – since his congressional testimony last year.

In it, Comey paints Trump as someone who is “unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values," and who is "ego driven and about personal loyalty.”

ABC News’ Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos is conducting the first interview with Comey about the book, airing in a special edition of “20/20” on Sunday, April 15, at 10 p.m. ET.

PHOTO: A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership by James Comey (Flatiron Books) More

A few weeks before his private dinner with the president, shortly before his inauguration, Comey had a similar feeling about mob loyalty pledges during his first meeting with Trump, he writes. Comey and other top intelligence officials were at Trump Tower to brief the president-elect, Vice President-elect Mike Pence, and a small circle of their top aides on Russian efforts to influence the election.

Rather than ask about how to meet the threat from Russia, Comey writes, Trump, Pence and incoming White House aides Reince Priebus and Sean Spicer quickly focused on “how they could spin what we’d just told them,” debating “how to position these findings for maximum political advantage.”

“I sat there thinking, Holy crap, they are trying to make each of us ‘amica nostra’ – friend of ours. To draw us in,” Comey writes. “As crazy as it sounds, I suddenly had the feeling that, in the blink of an eye, the president-elect was trying to make us all part of the same family and that Team Trump had made it a ‘thing of ours.’”

Weeks later, after the private dinner with Trump in which Comey says he agreed to give the president “honest loyalty,” Comey had another private Oval Office meeting with Trump. This time, he writes, Trump appeared to ask him to drop an FBI inquiry of fired National Security Adviser Michael Flynn.

“He is a good guy,” Trump told Comey, according to the book. “I hope you can let this go.”

“I did not interrupt the president to protest that what he was asking was inappropriate, as I probably should have,” Comey writes. “But if he didn’t know what he was doing was inappropriate, why had he just ejected everyone, including my boss [Attorney General Jeff Sessions] and the vice president, from the room so he could speak with me alone?”

PHOTO: ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos sits down with former FBI director James Comey for an exclusive interview that will air during a primetime '20/20' special on Sunday, April 15, 2018 on the ABC Television Network. (Ralph Alswang/ABC News) More

Story ContinuesUNITED NATIONS (AP) — The U.N. Security Council overwhelmingly rejected a Russian resolution calling for condemnation of "aggression" by the United States, United Kingdom and France against Syria on Saturday, a vote reflecting support for the allied airstrikes on Syrian chemical sites.

But the vote at the end of an emergency meeting called by Russia also demonstrated again the paralysis of the U.N.'s most powerful body in dealing with Syria's seven-year conflict.

Russia's demand for condemnation and an immediate halt to "aggression" and "any further use of force" by the three Western allies got support from only two other countries on the 15-member Security Council — China and Bolivia.

By contrast, eight countries voted against the Russian draft — the U.S., U.K., France, Netherlands, Sweden, Kuwait, Poland and Ivory Coast. Four countries abstained — Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Equatorial Guinea and Peru.

At the meeting, the fifth in a week on chemical weapons in Syria, Russia and its supporters again clashed with the U.S. and its allies over a suspected poison gas attack on April 7 in the Damascus suburb of Douma.

The U.S., U.K. and France said they launched airstrikes against Syrian chemical sites after obtaining evidence that a chemical weapon was used by President Bashar Assad's government. Russia and its ally Syria called the attack fabricated and said no evidence of chemical weapons use exists in Douma.

U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley told the council "there is clear information demonstrating Assad's culpability."

And she said President Donald Trump told her Saturday morning that if the Syrian regime uses poisonous gas again "the United States is locked and loaded" to strike again.

"When our president draws a red line, our president enforces the red line," Haley stressed. "The United States of America will not allow the Assad regime to continue using chemical weapons."

France's U.N. Ambassador Francois Delattre said the result of the vote sends "a clear message" that Security Council members recognized the need for the airstrikes, and "their proportional and targeted nature."

"And what's most important is no one contests that the use of chemical weapons cannot be tolerated and must be deterred," he said. "That is essential."

Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said the meeting confirmed that the U.S. and its allies "continue to put international politics and diplomacy in the realm of myth-making — myths invented in London, Paris and Washington."

"We put facts contrary to your myths," he said. "If we continue on this path, we will soon reach the diplomacy of the absurd."

Russia and Syria also clashed with the three Western allies over the legality of the airstrikes and responsibility for the Security Council's paralysis.

Britain's U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce blamed Russia for repeatedly vetoing resolutions on the use of chemical weapons in Syria and said the U.K. took military action "to save lives," on the legal basis of "humanitarian intervention."

Britain believes "that is wholly within the principles and practices of the United Nations," she said.

Russia's Nebenzia called it "a very sad day for the world, for the U.N., for its Charter which was blatantly, blatantly violated, and for the Security Council which has shirked its responsibilities."

"I would like to believe that we will not see a day that is worse than today," he said.

Looking ahead, Delattre said France, Britain and the United States will soon be presenting the Security Council with a new draft resolution aimed at achieving a lasting solution to the Syrian conflict that addresses political, chemical and humanitarian issues.

Nebenzia responded saying the environment is "not very conducive for any rapprochement" and "the political and dangerous military situation we are in now" must be sorted out first.

"Once again, we demand an immediate stop to aggression and refrain from the illegal use of force in the future," he said.

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who briefed the council before the vote, stressed again "the need to avoid the situation from spiraling out of control" and for a political solution.

Guterres said he has asked Syrian special envoy Staffan de Mistura to come to New York as soon as possible to consult "on the most effective way to accelerate the political process."UNITED NATIONS (AP) — The U.N. Security Council overwhelmingly rejected a Russian resolution calling for condemnation of "aggression" by the United States, United Kingdom and France against Syria on Saturday, a vote reflecting support for the allied airstrikes on Syrian chemical sites.

But the vote at the end of an emergency meeting called by Russia also demonstrated again the paralysis of the U.N.'s most powerful body in dealing with Syria's seven-year conflict.

Russia's demand for condemnation and an immediate halt to "aggression" and "any further use of force" by the three Western allies got support from only two other countries on the 15-member Security Council — China and Bolivia.

By contrast, eight countries voted against the Russian draft — the U.S., U.K., France, Netherlands, Sweden, Kuwait, Poland and Ivory Coast. Four countries abstained — Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Equatorial Guinea and Peru.

At the meeting, the fifth in a week on chemical weapons in Syria, Russia and its supporters again clashed with the U.S. and its allies over a suspected poison gas attack on April 7 in the Damascus suburb of Douma.

The U.S., U.K. and France said they launched airstrikes against Syrian chemical sites after obtaining evidence that a chemical weapon was used by President Bashar Assad's government. Russia and its ally Syria called the attack fabricated and said no evidence of chemical weapons use exists in Douma.

U.S. Ambassador Nikki Haley told the council "there is clear information demonstrating Assad's culpability."

And she said President Donald Trump told her Saturday morning that if the Syrian regime uses poisonous gas again "the United States is locked and loaded" to strike again.

"When our president draws a red line, our president enforces the red line," Haley stressed. "The United States of America will not allow the Assad regime to continue using chemical weapons."

France's U.N. Ambassador Francois Delattre said the result of the vote sends "a clear message" that Security Council members recognized the need for the airstrikes, and "their proportional and targeted nature."

"And what's most important is no one contests that the use of chemical weapons cannot be tolerated and must be deterred," he said. "That is essential."

Russia's U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia said the meeting confirmed that the U.S. and its allies "continue to put international politics and diplomacy in the realm of myth-making — myths invented in London, Paris and Washington."

"We put facts contrary to your myths," he said. "If we continue on this path, we will soon reach the diplomacy of the absurd."

Russia and Syria also clashed with the three Western allies over the legality of the airstrikes and responsibility for the Security Council's paralysis.

Britain's U.N. Ambassador Karen Pierce blamed Russia for repeatedly vetoing resolutions on the use of chemical weapons in Syria and said the U.K. took military action "to save lives," on the legal basis of "humanitarian intervention."

Britain believes "that is wholly within the principles and practices of the United Nations," she said.

Russia's Nebenzia called it "a very sad day for the world, for the U.N., for its Charter which was blatantly, blatantly violated, and for the Security Council which has shirked its responsibilities."

"I would like to believe that we will not see a day that is worse than today," he said.

Looking ahead, Delattre said France, Britain and the United States will soon be presenting the Security Council with a new draft resolution aimed at achieving a lasting solution to the Syrian conflict that addresses political, chemical and humanitarian issues.

Nebenzia responded saying the environment is "not very conducive for any rapprochement" and "the political and dangerous military situation we are in now" must be sorted out first.

"Once again, we demand an immediate stop to aggression and refrain from the illegal use of force in the future," he said.

U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who briefed the council before the vote, stressed again "the need to avoid the situation from spiraling out of control" and for a political solution.

Guterres said he has asked Syrian special envoy Staffan de Mistura to come to New York as soon as possible to consult "on the most effective way to accelerate the political process."Two teachers in Louisiana have been fired after an audio recording allegedly captured them mocking and saying inappropriate things about a boy with severe autism.

The boy’s mother, Milissa Davis, sent her 12-year-old son to Hope Academy with a recording device in his backpack after he became aggressive at home and wet the bed, WBRZ2 reports.

At least two adults in a classroom, who have been identified as a teacher and teacher’s aide, were picked up on the recording apparently saying awful things to the boy and talking about him.

“You’re just writing the word. What is hard about it?” an adult can be heard saying as the boy grunted in response. The adult then mocked the noise. Later the adult said, “Camden, why don’t you have anything written down? That’s why you can’t sit with everyone. Tell your momma that.”

An adult can also be heard saying, “Let’s see what they do with him in f***ing public school. He was going to go to Live Oak Middle. Uh ah, he wouldn’t make it for a minute.”

Davis told WBRZ2 that she was extremely upset by what she heard. “I just wanted to cry, scream, and do everything I could because it was so bad,” she said. “To think that I had sent my son there every day, and what had happened before, that I didn’t know about.”

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a group of conditions related to brain development, including autism and Asperger’s syndrome, according to the Mayo Clinic. People with autism may have difficulty picking up on social cues and perform repetitive behaviors, the organization says.

Autism is not rare: About one in 68 children has autism, and the disorder is 4.5 times more common in boys than girls, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says.

Comments like the ones the school employees allegedly made can be upsetting to children with autism, as they can be for children without the condition, Lisa A. Nowinski, director of clinical psychology and training at Massachusetts General Hospital and an instructor at Harvard Medical School, tells Yahoo Lifestyle. “These comments can lead to increased sadness, anxiety, and low self-esteem,” she says. “These negative comments can impact the way a child with autism interacts with people around them. The child may learn that people are mean, hurtful, or not supportive.”

Unfortunately, stories like Davis’s have happened before. A father in Florida discovered in 2017 that his autistic son, who is nonverbal, was being abused at school after he became scared of water bottles. A school district report alleged that Eddie Perillo’s son was mistreated by his teacher, who would throw him to the ground and spray a water bottle filled with vinegar in his face, WJLA reports.

A father in New Jersey, Stuart Chaifetz, had his autistic son, Akian, wear a digital recorder to school after he was told that Akian was hitting his teacher and teacher’s aide, which was out of character for him. Chaifetz heard the teacher and an aide calling his son names, making fun of him, yelling at him, and having inappropriate conversations in front of the children in his classroom, ABC News reports.

The latest incident and others like it are “just horrible,” Matt Asner, vice president of development for the Autism Society of America, tells Yahoo Lifestyle. Asner points out that there will always be bad people in the world, but often proper training can make a big difference in how educators interact with children who have autism. “Unfortunately, budgets are almost always an issue,” he says, and many teachers may not receive the training they need on autism awareness and how to interact with children who have the condition.

If you have an autistic child, Asner recommends talking to school officials to make sure that your child’s teacher is certified to teach children with autism, and that the school has annual sensitivity training. “That’s something every teacher should be doing,” he says. Again, it won’t necessarily stop all negative interactions with autistic children, but it can help.

Nowinski recommends that parents of autistic children maintain a close relationship with their child’s school team, ask to meet with the staff who will be working with their child, and check in regularly. Parents should also look out for unexpected changes in behavior, increased social withdrawal, or avoidance of specific people or places, Nowinski says, as this can be a sign that something is off at school.

As for Davis, she says she’s hired an attorney because of the situation and plans to file complaints with the Department of Education. Her advice to parents: “If they’re special needs, look at the situation as to why your child is acting that way, because no child deserves to go through what my child did,” she said.

Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.Andrew Kerr, a former tech executive at Hospital Corporation of America, began studying business leaders a few years ago across many industries, including healthcare, politics, and sports. He saw how frequently “they’d put in the work, and achieve a certain level of success, and then all of a sudden they would make a critical mistake, and often it was a self-inflicted wound… And I sort of got tired of this story, I got tired of seeing people rise and then all of a sudden trip up over themselves.”

He determined that what these leaders lacked was humility, and he began teaching a course on the topic that led to his book, “The Humility Imperative: Why The Humble Leader Wins in an Age of Ego.” The book is particularly relevant right now to recent business news like the resignation of Uber CEO Travis Kalanick or the fall of red-hot biotech startup Theranos.

“When you look at Silicon Valley, a lot of outsized egos out there,” says Kerr. “Certainly to be a leader, you have to be confident. And you can be aggressive, and you can be bold, but you want to be aggressive and bold on behalf of your organization, not for yourself. Ask the folks that worked at Theranos or Uber if they wish their leaders had had more humility over this past year. I think you would get a pretty positive answer.”

There’s someone else you might think Kerr’s book could apply to: President Donald Trump, whose first year in office has been characterized by “fire and fury,” often in the form of tweets calling out world leaders or criticizing NFL team owners, to name just two examples.

“I wrote the book during the election season, and that subtitle about the age of ego, that was certainly on my mind during the election season,” Kerr says.

President Donald J. Trump. (WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) More

Yahoo Finance asked Kerr for his analysis of Trump’s level of humility. He says Trump is charismatic, but also narcissistic—and that’s dangerous to the organization he leads, which is now the US government.

“He fits into this category of what we call a charismatic leader—these are typically leaders that are very bold, they’re eloquent communicators, but they lead by force of their personality. And for better or for worse, these are the type of leaders that we tend to promote and we tend to elect,” Kerr says.

“The downside with the president is if you look at him and study him, you see that he has a lot of qualities of a narcissist. We used to actually say this is okay for CEOs to be somewhat narcissistic, because it makes them very driven. Well, better research has come out and said that these narcissistic leaders have a couple tendencies that really put their organization at a disadvantage.”

Kerr continues, “They’re very sensitive to social praise and criticism. Look at Twitter. And they’re not very sensitive to objective measures of their performance—they don’t really care how they’re actually doing, it’s just the perception of how they’re doing. The last one that you can really see is narcissistic leaders tend to have really high boom and bust cycles.”

Never said when an attack on Syria would take place. Could be very soon or not so soon at all! In any event, the United States, under my Administration, has done a great job of ridding the region of ISIS. Where is our “Thank you America?” — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2018





Are there examples out there right now of more obviously humble leaders? They’re hard to find, says Kerr, who now works as a partner at a tech consultancy in Nashville, Tenn., called FortyAU. Humble leaders are more rare, Kerr says, because the truly humble ones don’t get as much press attention—because they don’t seek it. He does believe new Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella is one example.

“They’re not as well known, they don’t get as much press, and yet they outperform the market by three times what their competitors did who were celebrity CEOs,” he says. “That’s why I’m trying to say, Hey, this is actually not a ‘nice to have’ for leaders, it should be an imperative for every leader to look at their humility.”

—

Daniel Roberts covers sports business, tech, and media at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter at @readDanwrite.



Read more:

Uber, Airbnb CEOs walk a tightrope in Trump era

Trump is putting NFL owners in a corner

How NFL sponsors are responding to Trump’s national anthem crusade

Donald Trump’s war on the NFL dates back to 1986

Steve Madden ‘particularly upset’ over Trump’s criticism of Colin KaepernickWilliam H. Macy has been a professional actor his entire adult life, but he didn’t become a film star until he was well into his 30s. “I started my career [on the stage] in Chicago, and we were relatively snobbish about not only Chicago but the theater,” said Macy, who in the 1970s formed a theater company there with playwright David Mamet. “I think all of us really wanted to get a film role but we weren’t willing to do what you had to do to get a film role, which is go to L.A. or New York. We thought Chicago was enough. So I didn’t look at it as beginning a new career or a second phase of my career, my film work.”

But everything changed for the Maryland native when, after practically stalking Joel and Ethan Coen, he scored the role of small-town crime plotter Jerry Lundegaard in Fargo (1996), a role that earned him an Academy Award nomination. Macy has appeared in more than 50 movies since, and though he battled typecasting after playing the sad sack in a string of acclaimed films (Fargo, Boogie Nights, Pleasantville, etc.), his parts would broaden as he balanced films big (Jurassic Park III), small (State and Main), and somewhere in between (Seabiscuit). The characters he’s best known for these days, meanwhile, the hard-living, hard-drinking, womanizing patriarch Frank Gallagher on Showtime’s increasingly outrageous family drama Shameless, couldn’t be farther from his early “aw, schucks” screen persona.

Macy has also been directing, beginning with the 2014 musical drama Rudderless and currently with the new film Krystal, in which he also acts with his wife, Felicity Huffman. Nick Robinson (Jurassic World) stars in the drama as an 18-year-old with a heart condition and strict Christian upbringing who falls for a recovering alcoholic and ex-prostitute (Rosario Dawson).

In a candid “Role Recall” interview (read below), Macy walked us through some of the most memorable — and in the case of WarGames and Silence of the Lambs, unmemorable — moments in his wide-ranging movie and television career.

WarGames (1983)/The Silence of the Lambs (1991)

According to IMDb, Macy had an uncredited role as a NORAD officer in the ’80s tech thriller that introduced the world to Matthew Broderick. He has no recollection of it, though he did recently find out he can be heard in the Jodie Foster-Anthony Hopkins Oscar winner.

“Are you sure I was in WarGames? I don’t remember anything about that. This has happened to me before. Someone was talking to me about The Silence of the Lambs and my role in it. I finally said, ‘I wasn’t in it.’ They said, ‘No, you were.’ So I went back and checked it and turned out I had done a voiceover, I had looped some guy. So I guess I was in Silence of the Lambs! But I don’t remember WarGames.”

ER (1994-2009)

Though he wasn’t part of the hit medical drama’s core cast, Macy had a recurring role as a surgeon, Dr. David Morgenstern, starting with the series’ pilot episode in 1994, and continuing through 1998 (he also returned for the series finale in 2009).

“They treated me really well. But I was sort of the outsider. The cast, I remember, was very, very tight. They went on vacation together, all the guys went on vacation. … I was really impressed that they did that. And they came home from vacation and they were still pals.”

Macy couldn’t exactly walk the walk and talk the talk of a real-life doctor.

“There were a lot of words. And the bar was set really high on that thing. And inevitably they would put me in a surgery scene, so I’d memorize all this jibberish, two pages of this stuff, it took you forever! And then you’d show up, and they’d put a mask [over your face]. It didn’t even need to be me, much less [did I have to] memorize that stuff. I could’ve done it by voiceover. We memorized it. … But I never knew what I was saying on that show.”

Fargo (1996)

Macy originally auditioned for a smaller role (to play a detective), but writer-directors Joel and Ethan Coen steered him toward Jerry Lundegaard … even if he had to follow them around the country to land the part.

“I went back and back and back. I really wanted it. I worked on it really hard and they just kept saying, ‘Ehhh … I like it.’ You wanna come back again? Until finally I found out they were in New York, so I flew to New York and crashed the audition.A 42-year-old mom of four is auditioning to become a Houston Texans cheerleader. Should she secure a spot on the NFL squad, it would make her the oldest cheerleader in the team's history.

Melanie Way, who is trying out April 14 at Houston Methodist Training Center, said she hopes to inspire other women that it’s never too late to go after your dreams.

"Being on the field, the music is loud and people are excited to be there," Way of Houston, Texas, told ABC News today. "That's what excites me. It's just really fun and who doesn't want to have fun? Yes, I'm 42, yes I'm the oldest, yes I'm a mom -- just because you have kids, you can still write that book, be a singer, you can do whatever it is that you're passionate about."

PHOTO: Melanie Way, 42, has been dieting and exercising since January to prepare her to audition to become a Houston Texans cheerleader. (KTRK) More

Way is a former dance instructor and was also a Dallas Cowboys cheerleader for the 1997 to 1998 season. Since January, she has been training in preparation to try out as a Houston Texans cheerleader.

Woman reveals how company knowingly hired her at 12 weeks pregnant: 'I can still do my job perfectly'

First-ever male cheerleaders in NFL history describe lengthy LA Rams auditions

Way credits cutting out sugar and fat, and exercising with helping her get back into shape.

Upward of 1,000 will audition for 35 spots on the Houston Texans cheerleading squad.

PHOTO: Melanie Way, 42, has been dieting and exercising since January to prepare her to audition to become a Houston Texans cheerleader. (KTRK) More

All must have a high school diploma, be able to work 10 games and make 40 appearances during the year.

Candidates need to be at least 18 years of age to audition for the team but there is no cutoff, Houston Texans director of cheerleader programs and coach Alto Gary, confirmed in a statement to ABC News today.

PHOTO: Melanie and Brian Way seen in an undated photo with their children, Lane-15, Ryann, 12, Piper, 11 and Zayna, 1 year. (Melanie Way) More

“For those of us who love to dance, it is a lifelong passion that can be done at any age,” Gary said. “We wish [Way] the best.”

PHOTO: Melanie Way, 42, will audition for the Houston Texans, making her the oldest cheerleader in the team's franchise history, should she secure a spot on the NFL squad. (Trask Smith Photography) More

If she makes the team, Way said she'd like to serve as a role model to the other cheerleaders.

"I'm hoping they come to me about questions or advice about life," she added. "That's what I really want to get out of it, is helping them."Heartbreaking New Details About The Man Who Died As A Result Of The Abuse He Suffered As A Child — And Why His Abusers Are Behind Bars AgainA mother of four is looking to pick up her pom-poms and make a return to cheerleading after 21 years away from the NFL, setting a new record.

Melanie Way, 42, was a cheerleader for the Dallas Cowboys in the 1990s, but will audition for a place in the Houston Texans’ franchise on Saturday (April 14).

She has been dieting while completing daily dance routines and exercises in a bid to be prepared for the try-outs. Way says part of her reason for auditioning is to show her children that age is just a number.

Trending: Sitting for a Long Time Is Bad for Your Brain

"Just because I'm 42 doesn't mean your life is over," Way told ABC. "I hope they see that and I hope they take that with them as they get older and they chase their dreams just like I am.”

Way would become the oldest cheerleader the Texans franchise has ever had, with Houston saying the oldest so far was in her mid-30s. But, for Way, it’s a case of when, rather than if.

"I've been telling myself, 'when I make the squad,'" she said. "When I make the team."

Don't miss: Gaza: Israeli Soldiers Injure Dozens As Border Protests Continue for Third Week

Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders More

Tom Pennington/Getty

Competition is fierce, though, with more than 1,000 cheerleaders expected to audition on Saturday and only 35 positions available.

Way certainly has experience on her side, having performed as part of the squad for the Dallas Cowboys, before stopping in 1997. She has fond memories of her time on the field and is determined to make a return.

"It was fun dancing on the field," Way said. "It's an amazing experience to be out there and the fans are cheering and you're dancing, you're just having a blast."



This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekWhile Khloé Kardashian has yet to break her silence about those allegations that boyfriend Tristan Thompson cheated on her with multiple women while she was pregnant with their child, the Keeping Up with the Kardashians star’s fans sure aren’t biting their tongues.

As Thompson’s alleged infidelities made headlines, commenters swarmed his latest Instagram post with a slew of savage comments, most beginning with the phrase “I hope.”

The not-so-well wishes — left on Thompson’s Wednesday sponsored post for Ferragamo sunglasses as part of a collaboration between GQ and Neiman Marcus — have pushed for the NBA star to have a lifetime of fails.

And though Khloé and the rest of her famous family — including sisters Kourtney Kardashian, Kim Kardashian West, Kylie Jenner, Kendall Jenner and momager Kris Jenner — all still follow Thompson, they’ve yet to leave a comment of their own.

Here are some of the 261,000 comments so far:

View photos

On Monday, news broke that Thompson, 27, had been photographed and videotaped with a brunette woman at a lounge in New York City, as Kardashian was in Cleveland, Ohio, awaiting the birth of their first child together.

TMZ also posted footage recorded in October 2017 allegedly depicting Thompson kissing one woman while a different woman groped him at the Darna hookah lounge outside of Washington, D.C.

It has been alleged that he also strayed with two other women in addition to those on film.

Kardashian welcomed their daughter on Thursday, with her family including mom Kris and sisters Kim and Kourtney, by her side in Cleveland.

View photos

One source told PEOPLE on Thursday the Good American jeans creator had “basically already forgiven” Thompson.

“Khloé is feeling nothing but happiness right now. She is head over heels in love with her little girl — she is just consumed with love. Absolutely nothing else matters,” the Kardashian family source said.

Want to keep up on the latest from PEOPLE? Sign

up for our daily newsletter to get our best stories of the day delivered straight to your inbox.

The new mother is “so incredibly happy” that she isn’t upset about the cheating allegations, according to the source.

“She’s so incredibly happy that her baby is here, that she is big and strong and healthy and beautiful, and so right now Khloé truly has no other cares in the world. She isn’t even mad at Tristan right now,” the source continued.

“She’s basically already forgiven him,” the source added. “She is in a bubble of love and peace and happiness right now, and everything that happened with Tristan is less about ‘cheating’ and more like, it was just a random drunken hookup that meant nothing and was kissing at most and didn’t lead to anything else and was the fault of stupid groupies trying to trap him, and everybody just needs to move on.”UPDATE: FRIDAY, APRIL 13: Kim Kardashian West took to her Instagram page to explain why she deleted three bikini photos she shared while on vacation with sister Kourtney in Turks and Caicos, all posted after news broke on Monday that Tristan Thompson allegedly cheated on Khloé Kardashian. Kardashian West reposted one of the deleted photos in question, explaining in the caption that she “didn’t like the vibe on my page,” but she “re-filtered” them and would soon be “reposting some.”

The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star added that she’s “crazy about the vibe on my IG page. #PositiveVibesOnly” The hashtag is seemingly referring to her feed, but could also be a reference to the scandal surrounding the family at the moment.

—

THURSDAY, APRIL 12: There’s no denying Khloé Kardashian has had a week of high highs and low lows: On Monday, allegations of cheating surfaced against her boyfriend, Tristan Thompson, along with footage of the alleged incidents dating back to October. Then on Thursday, Kardashian welcomed their daughter amid all of the drama. As reports continued to spring up, and Khloé remained in Cleveland awaiting the birth, all eyes were on the tight-knit family to see if they would respond to the drama, if at all.So, when Kim Kardashian West posted three swimsuit photos from a trip to Turks and Caicos with sister Kourtney as events unfolded, some perceived the photos to be insensitive to Khloé. Not to mention, social media claimed Monday as #NationalSiblingDay, a moment Kardashian West indulged in by posting a snap with Kourtney wearing coordinating black bikinis and Dior visors, with no mention of Khloé, or younger sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner. For now, the deleted photos remain on her Twitter feed.

Watch the full special Born Kardashian streaming now on PeopleTV.com, or download the PeopleTV app on your favorite device.

Interestingly, all the swimsuit photos posted before the scandal broke remain on her Instagram feed.

RELATED VIDEO: Kris Jenner & Kim Kardashian Fly to Khloé’s Side for Birth Amid Tristan’s Cheating Scandal

Kourtney also posted photos from the Turks and Caicos trip both before and after the news, and for now she’s kept them up on her feed.

Following the trip, Khloé’s family flew to Cleveland to be by her side for the birth amid the sudden turmoil. “They’re trying to keep her emotionally stable. The whole family is beyond pissed at Tristan,” a source tells PEOPLE, adding that the plan is to move her back to L.A. as quickly as possible. “The goal is to get Khloé out of there as fast as they can without jeopardizing the safety of the baby after she’s arrived. Khloé just wants to be home.”Looks like Khloe Kardashian and Tristan Thompson are staying together.

A source close to Kardashian tells ET that the reality star is not planning to break up with her NBA player beau amid reports that he cheated on her with multiple women. In fact, the source says "it's not even on the table right now."

"They are both 100 percent committed to moving past this and focusing on the overwhelming joy they have in their life right now with their new daughter," the source shares. "Tristan knows he's got to step up now though and can't screw up."

"They're only looking forward, not backward," the source adds.

Kardshian gave birth to her and Thompson's first child together at a Cleveland-area hospital early Thursday morning, just days after cheating headlines surfaced. ET learned that Kim and Kourtney Kardashian, Kris Jenner and Malika Haqq were with the Revenge Body star in the delivery room, while Thompson was spotted leaving the hospital that day.

Kim and Kourtney flew back to Los Angeles on Thursday. "They have families and young kids to get back to. They were never planning on staying long even before the scandal," the source explains. "Plus, Khloe will be back in LA very soon.”

While a source told ET that Kardashian has decided to return to LA as soon as her daughter is able to fly -- "Right now, she realizes she needs her family around her and knows they are the people in her life that she will always love and trust," the source said -- another source revealed that she isn't ready to give up the love and security she feels with Thompson.

"She loves him, and it looks like for the time being she isn't ending their relationship," the source continued. "She is in no shape to make that decision right now."

See more in the video below.

RELATED CONTENT:

Khloe Kardashian Had 'Keeping Up With the Kardashians' Cameras Rolling During Her Birth

Kylie Jenner Is the First Family Member to Publicly Congratulate Khloe Kardashian on Her Baby's Birth

Kris Jenner Says She's 'Blessed' After Khloe Kardashian Gives Birth to Ninth Grandchild

Related Articles:The weeks leading up to Coachella have been full of rumors and anticipation--will Destiny's Child get back together? Who will make a surprise guest appearance? But perhaps nothing was more hotly anticipated than the official return of Kylie Jenner, just more than two months after the birth of her daughter, Stormi Webster, and just two days after her sister Khloé gave birth to her first child in Cleveland, amid a turbulent couple of days for the family. (Read a detailed timeline of that saga here.)

But anyway, back to Kylie. Coachella was slated to be the new mom's first public appearance since giving birth to Stormi in February—she's in Indio, California, with sister Kourtney promoting the launch of their new Kylie Cosmetics collection Kourt x Kylie. And, of course, she delivered. In a pair of Instagram photos that went up Friday evening, the youngest Kardashian showed off new waist-length, highlighter-pink hair. (A wig, we presume.) Earlier in the day, she had posted a shot taken while out on a walk with Stormi; in it, she wore a minidress patterned with the Fendi logo, matching her infant’s stroller.

Jenner captioned the first of the two images “I’m not a regular mom I’m a cool mom,” a reference to the oft-quoted Mean Girls line, written by Tina Fey, and spoken by Amy Poehler's character. (There are no rules in the Kardashian-Jenner house. If you ever need anything, don’t be shy.) Apparent signifiers of cool-mom-hood: baby-sized Fendi, a well-stocked garage, occasional expeditions to summer music festivals. Incidentally, this was not the first time she referenced that particular moment from the film—only last time, it was her mom, Kris, who was cast as Regina George’s “cool mom,” and the video was not of Jenner’s own making. Instead, it was the work of the anonymous artist Saint Hoax. “I hate the internet lmfaoooo,” Jenner wrote at the time.

Then, below the second Coachella image, Jenner credited the product responsible for her general iridescence, her Kylighter in Cotton Candy Cream. Only cool moms have their own beauty brand, it seems.

Related: Kylie Jenner Is a Mommy Blogger Now, BasicallyFrom Marie Claire

Kylie Jenner is officially a mom. You might have thought that happened back in February, when Stormi Webster was born, but it wasn't really official until Friday, when Kylie made a total mom joke on Instagram.

In a post showing off her hot pink hair for Coachella 2018, Kylie finally achieved one hundred percent mom status with the most mom-beloved Mean Girls reference of all time.

"I’m not a regular mom I’m a cool mom," she captioned the picture of herself in a white tank top and and a waist-length pink wig.

In a second shot from the same day, Kylie shared that she's sporting the Cotton Candy Cream Kylighter for her latest Coachella look.Kourtney Kardashian and Kylie Jenner arrived at Coachella just one day after the birth of their niece by sister Khloé Kardashian.

The two sisters were photographed together in Indio, California, ahead of a full weekend of musical acts including Beyoncé, Cardi B and The Weeknd.

Kardashian, 38, looked ready for the sun’s rays in a black see-through tank top with a black bra, black shades and dark gray Adidas sweatpants.

Jenner, 20, shielded her face with a jean jacket and matching jeans along with her hair in a topknot. The sisters were accompanied by their boyfriends, Younes Bendjima and Travis Scott.

Jenner showed off her new pink locks on Instagram after landing at Coachella, sharing her new long hair with the caption, “I’m not a regular mom I’m a cool mom,” from the iconic hit film Mean Girls.

In a second photo, Jenner wrote, “cotton candy cream kylighter … ]]>💕🌴He refuses to pay taxes because he opposes abortions. He just beat the feds in court More

Michael Bowman, a 53-year-old self-employed computer software developer from Columbia City, Oregon, hasn’t paid his federal income taxes since 1999. He says it’s because his Christian ideals don’t allow him to pay into a system that funds abortions. In a YouTube video explainer of his defense, he likened paying taxes that then go toward funding abortions to German citizens under Nazi rule who outed Jewish citizens, sending them to their deaths. And according to The Associated Press, he beat the feds in court this week. To be clear, Bowman won the battle, not the war he’s fighting with the IRS and the Oregon U.S. District Court, when federal Judge Michael W. Mosman dismissed a felony tax evasion

Continue ReadingFor families across the country, graduation is a special moment to come together and celebrate a milestone. But for Sequoia Smith, that can’t happen in the usual way. She’s celebrating her college graduation by paying homage to both her parents, who passed away before seeing her walk across the stage to get her diploma.

The 25-year-old is inspiring thousands of people with her story, which she shared on Instagram. She posed in her cap next to photos of her mom and dad, sharing her moment with them.





Smith’s dad passed away from sickle cell anemia not long before her high school graduation, according to CBS affiliate KFDM in Beaumont, Texas. Her mom died from cervical cancer two years later, shortly after Smith obtained an associate’s degree.

“Seems like weeks, months even years passed by and it didn’t seem real that my parents were gone. Sometimes, it still doesn’t, ” Smith wrote. “I felt so numb and detached from the world.”

After losing both her parents at the age of 19, Smith said she “canceled the idea” of finishing her education. But as time went on, she knew she had to go back and finish what she started.

Speaking to Yahoo Lifestyle, Smith says, “I honestly didn’t anticipate for this to happen. I wanted my post to get to someone who has experienced what I have to enlighten them. … It just blew up. The amount of messages and comments I’m getting from so many incredible people is well worth me sharing.”

On May 11, she will be receiving her bachelor’s degree in public health from Lamar University. Her major and her planned career are both intended to honor her parents.





She wrote that it wasn’t easy without a support system to help her through the journey. “Not having anyone to call or talk to at times. Having to work ridiculous hours to make sure I had bare necessities. Keeping a smile on my face to keep from crying,” Smith wrote.

But she did it . And over 30,000 people are applauding her strength. Her post has gone viral and has garnered over 2,200 comments at the time of this story.





” If this isn’t the classic example of perseverance then I don’t know what is….you have done what would be impossible to most. I have so much empathy for you girl, I lost my dad at 23, but 2 parents by the time you’re 19?! And look at God, he’s with you helping you move mountains. I’m rooting for you,” wrote a commenter. “Congratulations. Sending you continued strength in your journey. This is the story of a true superhero,” added another.

Smith said she shared her story to inspire others to “keep fighting” no matter the circumstances.

“Stay focused and pray every single day, even when things are going well,” she wrote. She advises others who might be going through a situation like hers to “surround yourself with people who will uplift you! People who will pray for you without knowing the demons you’re battling. You will need them & whether you know it or not, they will need you.”

In just three short weeks, she’ll reach her goal, with her parents strongly in her mind: “I will be walking across that stage and though I may cry, I know they’re smiling,” she said.

Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.50 Michigan schools that produce few college graduates More

Eight years after they left high school, 16% of Detroit Public Schools' Class of 2009 had a bachelor's degree That's about half the statewide average for Michigan's public-school graduates. But graduates of Wayne County's charter schools fared even worse

Continue ReadingFor families across the country, graduation is a special moment to come together and celebrate a milestone. But for Sequoia Smith, that can’t happen in the usual way. She’s celebrating her college graduation by paying homage to both her parents, who passed away before seeing her walk across the stage to get her diploma.

The 25-year-old is inspiring thousands of people with her story, which she shared on Instagram. She posed in her cap next to photos of her mom and dad, sharing her moment with them.The Assad Regime fired 40 defensive missiles at thin air in a failed attempt to save the three Syrian chemical weapons sites destroyed by allied air strikes, the Pentagon said.

A total of 105 missiles rained down on a research centre in Damascus as well as a storage site and a bunker 15 miles west of Homs at 4am Syrian time.

Britain launched eight Storm Shadow cruise missiles from the sky as the US and France provided support from the sea and jets.

France fired 12 cruise missiles, three from a frigate and nine from aircraft, while the US provided the bulk of the firepower with 85 missiles in total.

A Typhoon aircraft prepares for landing at the British Royal Air Force base in Akrotiri, near costal city of Limassol, Cyprus. Syria's capital has been rocked by loud explosions as U.S. President Donald Trump announced airstrikes

A Typhoon aircraft prepares for landing at the British Royal Air Force base in Akrotiri, near costal city of Limassol, Cyprus. Syria's capital has been rocked by loud explosions as U.S. President Donald Trump announced airstrikes

The attack targeted Syria from all angles, with ships and submarines firing from the Red Sea, North Arabian Gulf and the Eastern Mediterranean and jets which took off from Cyprus, France and, reportedly, Qatar.

Addressing the media in Virginia, Lt. Gen. Kenneth McKenzie Jr, the director of joint staff, said he would pick three words to describe the attack: “Precise, overwhelming and effective".

He said Syria had launched 40 surface-to-air missiles in an attempt to shoot the allied weapons down, but that most of them had been fired after the last Syrian target had already been destroyed.

The three bases targeted were the Barzah Research and Development Centre in greater Damascus, the Him Shinshar Chemical Weapons Storage Facility, west of Homs, and the Him Shinshar Chemical Weapons Bunker Facility, just more than four miles from the storage facility.

Britain's involvement comprised of the Royal Air Force sending four Tornado GR4s to attack the Him Shinshar Chemical Weapons Storage Facility.

With a maximum speed of Mach 1.3 and capable of carrying more than eight tonnes of weapons, the GR4 is the latest phase in the evolution of the Tornado - the RAF's strike aircraft of choice for the last three decades.

The GR4s involved in the overnight attack deployed eight "bunker busting" Storm Shadow cruise missiles.

Weighing in at 2,866lb (1,300kg), measuring 16.7ft (5.1m) in length and with a range in excess of 150 miles (240km), it has been described by the air force as "arguably the most advanced weapon of its kind in the world".

The range means that none of the GR4s would have been required to cross into Syrian airspace to launch the assault and they were provided with air support by four Typhoons.

Intervention in Syria | Read more

Watch news, TV and more on Yahoo View.



Meanwhile, the French scrambled Mirage and Rafale fighter jets for their part in the Syrian air strikes together with four frigate warships, launching a total of 12 cruise missiles.

The multi-purpose Rafale is used for reconnaissance, ground support as well as air strikes. It is capable of carrying missiles of a similar capability to the Storm Shadows used by the UK.

Alongside the Rafale, France deployed its supersonic Mirage 2000 fighter jets - which have a maximum speed of Mach 2.

Both jets have the capacity to carry missiles capable of reaching their Syrian targets without entering Syrian airspace.

Syria: timeline of British involvement since 2013

The Americans deployed their B-1B Lancer bombers for the strike and also launched missiles from the Ticonderoga-class cruiser Monterey, the Virginia-class submarine John Warner, and two other warships.

In total, the US launched 66 Tomahawk missiles, and 19 joint air-to-surface stand-off missiles.

Nicknamed "the Bone", the B1-B is capable of carrying the most weapons of any bomber in a modern air force.

It is prized for its speed, manoeuvrability and long range.

Like the jets deployed by France and Britain, the B1-Bs would not have been required to cross into Syrian airspace to strike.

Earlier this month, the US Air Force released footage of two B-1Bs arriving at the Al Uldeid air base in Qatar.

The Barzah facility was hit by 76 US missiles in total, the storage facility was hit by 22 weapons from all three nations and seven French missiles fell on the bunker.

Earlier, Russia had claimed its Syria's Cold War era air defence system shot down 71 of the missiles launched by the US, Britain and France in retaliation for Bashar al-Assad's attack on civilians in Douma last Saturday.

Russia's senior military officer Sergei Rudskoi conducts a briefing at the defence ministry headquarters in Moscow following the overnight strikes Credit: KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AFP/Getty Images More

The US's top general played down the Syrian response, and asked if there had been any Russian retaliation, General Dunford said: "We did have some initial surface-to-air missile activity from the Syrian regime. That's the only retaliatory action we're aware of at this time.

"We've completed the targets that were assigned to the United States central command. Those operations are complete."

He added: "We specifically identified these targets to mitigate the risk of Russian forces being involved. We did not do any co-ordination with the Russians on the strikes, nor did we pre-notify them."

Syrian state media had earlier claimed to have shot down 13 cruise missiles, but Defence Secretary Gavin Williamson told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that last night's air strike against the Syrian regime was "a highly successful mission".

The destroyed Scientific Research Centre is seen in Damascus. Donald Trump said the attack was 'perfectly executed' Credit: Omar Sanadiki/Reuters More

He said: "The reason we have taken this action is because we all saw the images last week of the suffering that had been inflicted on innocent men, women and children, and there has been a need to act.

"That's why last night we deployed four Tornados armed with Storm Shadow cruise missiles. You will be pleased to hear all of those crews have returned safely and every early indication is that is has been a highly successful mission.

"This is something we have been in discussion with the US and French over the last few days but obviously the meeting of Cabinet is where this was properly discussed."

Mr Williamson said the service personnel involved in last night's attack have played "an important role in terms of degrading the Syrian regime in using chemical weapons in the future".

Russia had boasted of its S-400 surface-to-air defence system, but it does not appear to have been used in the overnight strikes in Syria.

Great Britain's arsenal in the Syrian conflict

Tornado GR4

The Tornado has been carrying out air strikes in Syria and Iraq over the past few years.

Set to be retired from service next year, after almost four decades on operations, the Tornado, with a maximum speed of Mach 1.3, has also seen action in Libya, Afghanistan and Iraq.

It can be loaded with a mix of weapons which include Paveway II, III and IV series GPS/laser-guided bombs, Brimstone air-to-ground missiles and Storm Shadow air-launched long-range strike missiles.

An RAF Tornado lands at Akrotiri in Cyprus, April 14, 2018 Credit: Reuters More

The main Tornado squadrons are based at RAF Marham in Norfolk, which will become the new home of the cutting-edge of the F-35 Lightning stealth fighter jets.

There are currently six of the jets based at RAF Akrotiri, Cyprus, a location some 315 miles (510km) from Syria.

Eurofighter Typhoon

With a maximum speed of Mach 1.8, the Eurofighter Typhoon was first deployed in combat in Libya in 2011, and is also the jet used for Britain's Quick Reaction Alert squadrons based at RAF Lossiemouth, Scotland, and RAF Coningsby, Lincolnshire, with a presence also in the Falkland Islands.

Typhoons are armed with an internal 27mm Mauser cannon, plus Advanced Short Range Air-to-Air Missiles, as well as Enhanced Paveway II and Paveway IV precision-guided bombs. Future weapons on the jet will also include Storm Shadow and Brimstone, as well as Meteor air-to-air missiles.

A Royal Air Force Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet taking off from RAF's Akrotiri base in Cyprus Credit: Petros Karadjidas/AFP More

There are currently eight of the jets based at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus, used in the air campaign against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.

Submarines

Another potential option could be to use Tomahawk cruise missiles launched from Royal Navy attack submarines.

British submarines have been equipped with the missiles since the late 1990s.

The Tomahawk IV has a range of well over 1,000 miles (1,610km) and can be redirected to a new target in mid-flight - it is known as a strike first weapon and could be a likely option for use in Syria as they can be launched unalerted.

Used during operations in Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq in 2003, it is understood there is always a submarine available to be deployed for such tasks, and one could be sent to the Eastern Mediterranean should it be required.

Storm Shadow cruise missiles

Described as a "long-range deep-strike weapon" by MBDA systems, which produces the missile, the company states on its website that it is "designed to meet the demanding requirements of pre-planned attacks against high-value fixed or stationary targets".

Weighing in at 2,866lb (1,300kg), measuring 16.7ft (5.1m) in length and with a range in excess of 150 miles (240km), it is operated from Tornado jets and in future will be carried on Eurofighter Typhoon.

In this picture taken in 2005, visitors pass behind the French made Storm Shadow/Scalp EG cruise missiles Credit: Rabih Moghrabirabih/AFP More

The long-range air-to-surface missile, designed as a "bunker buster", is understood to be the weapon likely to be used if allied military intervention in Syria is agreed upon, and could be useful to potentially penetrate underground chemical weapon stockpiles.

It was first brought into service in 2003 and has previously been described by the RAF as "arguably the most advanced weapon of its kind in the world".

Paveway bombs

The RAF said Paveway IV "offers huge tactical flexibility", and, as the impact angle and direction can be programmed from the cockpit, it gives a "precisely tailored strike on planned and unplanned targets".

As an air-to-surface weapon it offers improvements over older weapons, including greater accuracy.

It requires no maintenance, has a higher resistance to GPS jamming and a lower cost. But to be effective, the jet carrying it has to be over or within vicinity of the target, which could mean the aircraft it is being launched from becomes vulnerable to surface-to-air retaliatory missiles or fire.

Brimstone

Noted as a "precision attack weapon" by Stevenage-based MBDA, the company said Brimstone can be used to target fast-moving vehicles, tanks, armoured cars and bunkers, as well as naval vessels.

Each missile weighs 110lb (50kg), measures 6ft (1.8m) and is 7in (180mm) in diameter, and is a short-range missile.

The weapons Donald Trump has at his disposal to attack the Assad Regime

Tomahawk cruise missiles

The Tomahawk IV has a range of well over 1,000 miles and can be redirected to a new target in mid-flight - it is known as a strike first weapon and is a likely option for use.

Manufactured by Raytheon, the company states on its website that the cruise missile can "circle for hours, shift course instantly on command and beam a picture of its target to controllers".

With an ability to be launched from ships or submarines, the weapon can "fly into heavily defended airspace" and at extremely low altitudes, according to Raytheon.

The US has previously launched Tomahawk missiles at targets in Syria, including 59 on Shayrat air base in April last year from US Navy destroyers, USS Ross and USS Porter.

US, UK and French launch Syria airstrikes, in pictures

The strike targeted the airfield, warplanes and hangars on the base, south-east of the city of Homs, following an alleged sarin gas attack on civilians.

Tomahawks each weigh 3,300 lbs (1500 kg) with a rocket motor, and can travel at the subsonic speed of 550 mph.

In 2004 the British Government agreed a £70 million deal with the United States government to purchase 64 upgraded Tomahawk missiles.

Raytheon said the Tomahawk is a "highly-accurate, GPS-enabled precision weapon", which has been used more than 2,000 times by the US and allied militaries.

The US Navy states on its website that the primary function of the missiles is for "striking high value or heavily defended land targets".

It has been reported that two US cruise missile destroyers, armed with Tomahawks, have been dispatched or are already in the region, ready for if military action is given the go ahead.

F-16 fighter jets

There are a number of the aircraft at Incirlik Air Base in Turkey which have been supporting global coalition efforts to eradicate Islamic State from Syria and Iraq.

Known as the fighting falcon, the US Air Force (USAF) describes the jet on its website as being able to fly more than 500 miles and "delivers its weapons with superior accuracy" and can "defend itself against enemy aircraft".

A US-made F-16 fighter jet launches flares during a drill above the sea near the Suao navy harbour in Yilan, eastern Taiwan, on April 13, 2018 Credit: Sam Yeh/AFP More

Described as a multi-role fighter, it can carry a payload which includes the Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM), a stealthy missile which uses an infrared seeker, as well as four air-to-air missiles and reach Mach 2 when flying at altitude.

Lockheed Martin, the company behind the JASSM missile, said it is long-range and "designed to destroy high-value, well-defended, fixed and relocatable targets".

B-1 Bomber

The B-1B Lancer is capable of carrying the "largest conventional payload" according to the USAF, and is the "backbone of America's long-range bomber force".

Although the Department of Defence has said it will "not confirm locations of specific assets", in September last year it announced that one of the aircraft had flown in a mission off the North Korean coast amid Kim Jong-un's weapons programme.

A US Air Force B-1B Lancer bomber (right), US F-35B stealth jet fighters (bottom) and South Korean F-15K fighter jets (top) flying over South Korea Credit: AFP More

The warplane is capable of being packed with 24 of the long-range Joint Air-to-Surface Staff Missile Extended Range (JASSM-ER), according to the USAF, which has a longer range than the JASSM.

Flying "missions daily in support of continuing operations" according to the USAF, even though it is not known if there are any in the Middle East, it could potentially be deployed if strikes occur.

F-22 Raptor

Built by American aviation giant Lockheed Martin, according to the Department of Defence the stealth fighter jet has "unprecedented survivability and lethality".

It has been reported that America has a number of the warplanes based in Qatar, which have been used in the global coalition effort to eradicate Islamic State - the first use of the jet in a combat role by the US.

According to the USAF, the F-22 "cannot be matched by any known or projected fighter aircraft", and can cruise at supersonic airspeeds greater than Mach 1.5.

A US Air Force F-22 Raptor fighter jet at Santiago international airport earlier this month Credit: Ivan Alvarado/Reuters More

In September 2015 the USAF said it had 183 of the jets, with each one costing 143 million dollars (£100 million).

It can carry two 1,000 lb (450 kg) Joint Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) bombs, which "autonomously navigates to the designated target coordinates", the USAF said.

Russia's S-400 surface-to-air defence system - one of the most advanced on the planet

The latest generation in a series of increasingly sophisticated systems, the S-400 is considered one of the most advanced air defence systems in the world, reportedMike Wright, Roland Oliphant and video news producer Charlotte Krol.

It comes equipped with a sophisticated radar and control array that allows it to target dozens of enemy aircraft simultaneously at ranges of up to 250 miles.

And while its missile interceptor capability is shorter range - about 75 miles - its missiles travel at a thousand metres a second and can hit low-flying targets at just a few metres of altitude - perfect for killing sub-sonic Tomahawks.

Russia deployed the S-400 to its Hmeymim airbase in Syria in 2015 after a Turkish jet fighter shot down a Russian bomber.

How Russia's S-400 missile defence system could stand up in Syria

Moscow is believed to have at least one partial battery, consisting of several launchers with up to 60 missiles, at the Hmeymin airbase near Latakia.

It can fire several kinds of missile. The 9M96, which the S-400 generally uses against incoming cruise missiles, has an (official) successful interception rate of about 70 percent, so doctrine calls for two missiles to be fired at each target to guarantee a hit.

But US commanders may plan to overcome that impressive hit rate by firing an overwhelming number of Tomahawks.

"The system should have plenty of capacity to shoot down individual missiles. But it is fairly easy to swamp it just in terms of the sheer number of interceptors required," said Justin Bronk of the Royal United Services Institute.

A strike of the magnitude seen at the Shayrat airbase last year, when 60 Tomahawks were used, would be far beyond the missile capacity of the S-400 battery that we know to be in Syria."

An S-400 versus Tomahawk showdown in Syria would be the first time the systems have been properly tested against one another - and could have a profound impact on military thinking in Moscow and Washington.

"The performance of the S-400 would be very significant for Nato. The system is feared in Europe and Kaliningrad. If it was shown to be incapable of stopping significant numbers of Tomahawks it would have implications for Russia's deterrence capability," said Mr Bronk.

"That could be why the Russians refrained from intercepting the Tomahawks fired at Shayrat last year - nothing is more terrifying than the unknown."

They are yet to face off, as it appears Moscow did not deploy the system in the most recent air strikes on the Syrian bases.

At a glance | Sanctions against Russia

Syria's Cold War-era missile interceptors and launchers

S-75 Dvina

Damascus has 320 S-75 Dvina launchers as part of its air defence system designed to combat air strikes.

It is understood the Soviet designed weapons are currently being updated. Since its first deployment in 1957 it became one of the most widely deployed air defence systems in history.

At 2.3 tons, the weapon weighs more than twice that of Great Britain's new missile - the Storm Shadow cruise missile.

S-200

Syria has 48 Soviet-built S-200 missiles which were built back in 1967 and each one measures more than 10 metres.

The S-200 Angara is a long rage, medium-to-high altitude surface-to-air missile system designed in the Soviet Union.

While it is no longer used by the Russian army, it is a vital cog in Bashar al-Assad's military wheel.

The missile's range is impressive, but its reliability has been called into question after two people were killed and one injured after an apparently stolen warhead from the surface-to-air missile exploded at a scrap yard in the Siberian city of Chita.

A criminal investigation was opened into the "illegal acquisition and storage of explosive device" after two warheads from a S-200 Angara missile were found at the blast site.

Douma chemical attack

Local authorities said it appeared that the warhead had detonated while workers were cutting it down for scrap metal.

On Saturday morning, The Kremlin revealed it was considering supplying the updated S-300 missile systems to Syria.

In response to the Western strikes, Russia threatened to give Syria and other allies its advanced S-300 surface-to-air missiles.

Colonel-General Sergei Rudskoi: “A few years ago, considering the insistent requests of some of our Western partners, we decided not to deliver S-300 surface-to-air missile systems to Syria.

"Considering what has happened, we think it's possible to once again consider this question, and not just for Syria, but other countries.”

Half of France's military planes 'unfit to fly'

French warplanes and helicopters may be asked to join the fight against the Assad Regime, but the French Air Force on the whole is in a disastrous state, according to a report by Rory Mulhollandfrom Paris in December.

More than half - 56 per cent - of all France's aircraft were deemed unfit to fly at any given moment, according to a senior minister.

“If I compare the current situation … of our planes with a car, it is as if I wanted to have a car every morning that works, I would have to own four cars,” Florence Parly, the armed forces minister, said during a visit to an air base in Evreux in Normandy in December.

She made the remark in a scathing speech about the state of the French fleet, where aircraft availability has gone from bad to worse despite a 25 per cent boost to the maintenance budget over the past five years that brought the total to €4 billion (£3.5 billion) in 2017.

Ms Parly went to Evreux to announce wide-ranging plans to cut soaring costs and free up more aircraft by streamlining the current maintenance programme, which is so complex that it can take 30 different contracts to get a helicopter repaired.

Britain’s Royal Air Force, whose aircraft have been in constant use for many years in Afghanistan and Iraq, was criticised earlier last year when it was revealed that on average one in three of its multi-role Typhoon fighters and Tornado combat jets was unfit to fly.

Overall figures for the air readiness of the RAF fleet are not publicly available, but the figures for its fighter jets suggest that it is in far better shape than its French counterpart.

Eighty per cent of the French fleet is operational in the battle zones of west Africa, Iraq and the Middle East, according to official figures in December, but in bases in France the figure plummeted to 30 per cent.

The overall figure for aircraft ready to fly stood at 44 per cent, down from 55 per cent in 2000.

On average, just one Caracal - a long-range tactical transport helicopter - in four was ready for action, while just one or two A400M turboprop transport planes out of a total of twelve were ready to take to the air.

An Airbus Helicopter H225 Caracal takes part in a flying display at the first day of the 52nd Paris Air Show at Le Bourget airport near Paris Credit: Pascal Rossignol/Reuters More

The Rafale, which is seen as one of the best multi-purpose fighter jets in the world, scored a respectable 49 per cent availability.

But the figures for a range of other aircraft were disastrous: 22 per cent for the C-130 transport plane, 25 per cent for the Tiger attack and reconnaissance helicopter, and 26 per cent for the Lynx helicopter.

“The consequences of this are that (flight) teams train less … and the cost of an hour of flight time has gone up,” Ms Parly said at the time

An hour of flight time for a Caracal, for example, rose from €19,000 in 2012 to €34,000 in 2016.

“This situation is no longer tenable, and I have therefore made it a personal priority,” said the minister.

She announced that a new aeronautic maintenance department would be set up in March but that there would be no increase in the maintenance budget as it was deemed sufficient if the process was properly reorganised.

The planned department, whose boss will report to the joint chief of staff, would make the company that makes the aircraft responsible for their maintenance “from start to finish,” Ms Parly said.

The aim is to avoid the case of the Tiger helicopter, whose maintenance is currently split between so many different firms or military offices that it requires more than 30 separate contracts.

Profile | Bashar al-Assad

Pierre Tran, a specialist on French military issues, said at the time in theory the minister’s plans were sound but that in practice there was a high risk.

“They (defence contractors) will likely be thinking that Christmas came early this year,” he said, noting that the huge sums involved meant that there was a high risk of taxpayers’ money being wasted.

The key to success for the government is to exercise extreme caution when negotiating the new maintenance contracts with the firms involved, which include Airbus, Dassault, Thales and Air France Industries, said Mr Tran.

In a message clearly directed at aircraft makers, the Armed Forces Minister said she wanted results by 2020.

“We buy to fly, not to stock planes in hangars or parking spots,” said Ms Parly.By Michael Holden and Guy Faulconbridge

LONDON (Reuters) - Britain struck Syria with air-launched cruise missiles on Saturday in partnership with the United States and France to try to cripple its chemical weapons facilities and stop what Prime Minister Theresa May cast as a global slide towards their greater use.

Four Tornado jets from the Akrotiri base in Cyprus fired eight missiles at a military facility near Homs where it was assessed that Syria had stockpiled chemicals, the Ministry of Defence said.

May said the strike was "limited and targeted" and came after intelligence indicated that Syrian military officials had coordinated a chlorine attack in the Damascus suburb of Douma on April 7.

She said the missile attacks had been aimed at deterring President Bashar al-Assad's further use of chemical weapons and were not an attempt to topple the Syrian government.

"This is not about intervening in a civil war. It is not about regime change," May said in a statement minutes after U.S. President Donald Trump announced the strikes.

May later told reporters that the Western missiles had struck a chemical weapons storage and production facility, a chemical weapons research center and a military bunker involved in chemical weapons attacks.

By launching strikes without prior approval from parliament, May dispensed with a non-binding constitutional convention dating back to the 2003 invasion of Iraq. She said speed was essential and that military action was in the national interest.

"RIGHT AND LEGAL"

"It was both right and legal to take military action," May said, adding that she would update parliament on Monday.

May made clear the strike was a specific response to the Douma attack, which killed up to 75 people, including children.

She dismissed as "grotesque and absurd" a claim by Russia, which joined the war in 2015 to back Assad, that Britain had staged the Douma attack.

Her office issued a statement detailing what it said was the legal justification for military action, saying Assad had used chemical weapons since 2013 and the blocking of United Nations action by Russia and other allies of Syria left no alternative to "truly exceptional" use of force.

"Such an intervention was directed exclusively to averting a humanitarian catastrophe caused by the Syrian regime’s use of chemical weapons, and the action was the minimum judged necessary for that purpose," Downing Street said.

May referred to last month's nerve agent attack on former spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in the English city of Salisbury, which Britain has blamed on Russia. Moscow has denied any involvement.

"We cannot allow the use of chemical weapons to become normalized – either within Syria, on the streets of the UK or elsewhere," May told reporters in Downing Street.

She said almost a century of global aversion to the use of chemical weapons had been eroded in Douma and Salisbury.

"BOMBS WON’T SAVE LIVES"

May's office said she had spoken to the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the prime ministers of Italy, Australia and Canada about the strikes.

It said they all agreed with her on "the importance of restoring the international norm that the use of chemical weapons is never acceptable".

May also spoke to Trump and French President Macron, and they agreed the strikes had been a success, Downing Street said.

The small Northern Irish political party that props up her government said May was justified in taking such action.

However, opposition Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, a fervent anti-war campaigner, called the strikes "legally questionable" and said May should have recalled parliament from recess and "not trailed after Donald Trump".

"Bombs won’t save lives or bring about peace," he said. "Britain should be playing a leadership role to bring about a ceasefire in the conflict, not taking instructions from Washington and putting British military personnel in harm's way."

Many politicians including some in May's own Conservative Party, had backed his call for parliament to be asked before any military strike.

A BMG poll, taken before the strikes and published by the Independent newspaper on Saturday, indicated that 28 percent of Britons backed air strikes, with 36 percent opposed.UNITED NATIONS (Reuters) - Russia proposed a draft United Nations Security Council resolution on Saturday, seen by Reuters, that would condemn "the aggression against the Syrian Arab Republic by the U.S. and its allies in violation of international law and the U.N. Charter."

It was not immediately clear when it could be put to a vote. It was unlikely to get the minimum nine votes needed to force a veto by the United States, France or Britain, said diplomats. A resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by Russia, China, France, Britain or the United States to pass.

(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; editing by Diane Craft)The Giants remain immersed in their draft preparation, hunkered down in a meeting room at the team facility, putting the final touches on their draft board. With the No. 2-overall pick, there is not much need for hand-wringing or premature angst about who might be available for them. We are at T-minus 12 days and counting before the first round is underway. What does The Post know? Based on what is being said, what is being heard, what can be surmised and what should be considered educated guesswork, here we go: — It still does not appear likely the Giants will take a quarterback, at least not with the No. 2 pick. Their extensive study of all the top prospects included dinner, tours of the teamShows You Might LikeLate Night With Seth Meyers

Beloved "Saturday Night Live" personality - and the longest serving "anchor" on the show's wildly popular "Weekend Update" - Seth Meyers takes over as host of NBC's "Late Night," home to A-list celebrity guests, memorable comedy and the best in musical talent.1:45 2nd: Andre Iguodala misses the first free throw

6:45 1st: JaVale McGee makes a 2-foot cutting layup shot in the lane assisted...

1:04 3rd: Shaun Livingston misses the first free throw

4:21 1st: Klay Thompson makes a 19-foot pullup jumper from the right wing...

9:42 2nd: Draymond Green misses a 26-foot three-pointer from the top of the arc

8:10 2nd: Shaun Livingston makes a 1-foot cutting dunk shot in the lane...

1:50 1st: Quinn Cook makes a 17-foot pullup jumper from the top of the key...

:31.8 4th: Quinn Cook misses the first free throw

5:09 2nd: Draymond Green makes a 16-foot jumper along the right baseline...

7:58 4th: Quinn Cook misses a layup blocked by Derrick White

5:52 4th: Jordan Bell misses a 5-foot jumper in the lane blocked by Dejounte...

4:48 4th: Layup by Shaun Livingston assisted by Quinn Cook

11:43 1st: Draymond Green misses a 19-foot jumper from the top of the key

10:01 1st: Draymond Green misses a 24-foot three-pointer from the right corner

:46.8 2nd: Kevin Durant misses a 17-foot jumper from the right wing

5:44 1st: JaVale McGee misses the first free throw

:04.3 3rd: Kevin Durant makes a 7-foot floating jumper in the lane

:31.8 4th: Quinn Cook hits the second free throw

8:54 3rd: Andre Iguodala misses a layup

5:08 3rd: Draymond Green misses a 12-foot jumper in the lane

6:59 4th: Nick Young makes a 23-foot three-pointer from the left corner...

1:04 3rd: Shaun Livingston hits the second free throw

10:41 2nd: David West misses a 17-foot jumper from the top of the key

9:54 3rd: Klay Thompson makes a 31-foot three-pointer from the left wing...

7:14 3rd: JaVale McGee hits the first free throw

9:27 4th: David West makes an 11-foot jumper in the lane assisted by Draymond...

7:56 1st: Draymond Green misses a reverse layup blocked by LaMarcus Aldridge

6:16 1st: Layup by Draymond Green assisted by Andre Iguodala

5:44 1st: JaVale McGee hits the second free throw

3:49 1st: Kevin Durant makes a 26-foot three-pointer from the left wing

9:10 2nd: Klay Thompson makes a 26-foot three-pointer from the left wing...

7:13 2nd: Klay Thompson makes a 21-foot pullup jumper from the right wing...

8:54 3rd: JaVale McGee makes a 1-foot tip layup shot in the lane

7:14 3rd: JaVale McGee hits the second free throw

9:35 1st: Kevin Durant makes a 7-foot turnaround jumper in the lane

1:45 2nd: Andre Iguodala misses the second free throw

10:53 3rd: Klay Thompson makes a 13-foot fade away jumper along the right...

8:48 4th: Draymond Green misses a 29-foot three-pointer from the left wing

11:08 1st: Kevin Durant misses a 27-foot three-pointer from the left wing

:08.4 2nd: Klay Thompson misses an 18-foot floating jumper along the right...

5:44 1st: JaVale McGee misses a layup

10:10 2nd: Draymond Green makes a 4-foot turnaround hook shot in the lane...

8:41 2nd: Quinn Cook makes a 15-foot fade away jumper from the right wing

7:27 1st: Layup by JaVale McGee assisted by Kevin Durant

:33.2 3rd: Draymond Green makes a 26-foot three-pointer from the right wing...

8:58 1st: Layup by JaVale McGee assisted by Kevin Durant

11:05 2nd: Shaun Livingston misses a layup

10:50 1st: Kevin Durant makes a 20-foot pullup jumper from the right wing

1:17 2nd: Kevin Durant misses a alley-oop layup

1:35 4th: Jordan Bell makes a 12-foot step back jumper from the right wing

3:17 4th: Quinn Cook misses a 27-foot three-pointer from the top of the arc

2:23 4th: Nick Young misses a 26-foot three-pointer from the right wing

2:07 3rd: Kevin Durant hits the first free throw

4:17 4th: Kevon Looney makes a 17-foot pullup jumper from the top of the key...

2:07 3rd: Kevin Durant hits the second free throw

3:08 4th: Jordan Bell misses a dunk

1:05 1st: Quinn Cook misses a 22-foot three-pointer from the left corner

3:49 2nd: Klay Thompson makes a 12-foot pullup jumper along the left baseline...

5:49 4th: Shaun Livingston misses a 16-foot pullup jumper from the right wing

1:08 4th: Jordan Bell hits the first free throw

5:32 2nd: JaVale McGee hits the first free throw

1:08 4th: Jordan Bell misses the second free throw

6:39 2nd: Andre Iguodala misses a 26-foot three-pointer from the left wing

5:36 3rd: Andre Iguodala misses a layup blocked by Danny Green

3:16 2nd: Andre Iguodala makes a 27-foot three-pointer from the right wing...

3:27 3rd: Klay Thompson makes a 26-foot three-pointer from the right wing...

1:44 3rd: Kevin Durant makes a 13-foot pullup jumper in the lane assisted by...

3:16 1st: Draymond Green misses an 8-foot jumper in the lane

7:36 2nd: Shaun Livingston hits the first free throw

:55.7 1st: Kevin Durant makes an 18-foot fade away jumper from the right wing

9:15 3rd: Kevin Durant misses a 28-foot three-pointer from the left wing

8:22 3rd: Klay Thompson makes an 18-foot turnaround jumper along the left...

5:32 2nd: JaVale McGee hits the second free throw

2:22 3rd: Kevin Durant misses a 17-foot pullup jumper from the top of the key

2:48 4th: Kevon Looney misses a 16-foot turnaround jumper along the left...

1:57 4th: Quinn Cook misses an 8-foot bank jumper in the lane

10:10 2nd: Draymond Green misses a free throw

10:21 4th: Klay Thompson makes a 27-foot three-pointer from the left wing...

7:29 4th: Klay Thompson makes a 17-foot pullup jumper from the right wing...

5:23 4th: Nick Young misses a layup

:04.9 2nd: Kevin Durant hits the first free throw

2:15 1st: Kevin Durant makes an 18-foot turnaround fade away from the left wing...

10:20 3rd: JaVale McGee misses a 12-foot jumper in the lane

:37.6 1st: Shaun Livingston makes a 13-foot turnaround fade away in the lane

6:02 2nd: Kevin Durant misses a 15-foot jumper from the right wing

11:42 4th: Shaun Livingston makes a 13-foot turnaround fade away along the left...

7:51 3rd: Draymond Green makes a 28-foot three-pointer from the top of the arc...

4:12 2nd: Kevin Durant dunks the ball assisted by Klay Thompson

8:22 4th: Klay Thompson makes a 30-foot three-pointer from the left wing...

2:47 2nd: Draymond Green misses a 25-foot three-pointer from the left wing

1:14 3rd: Kevin Durant misses a 28-foot three-pointer from the right wing

:04.9 2nd: Kevin Durant hits the second free throw

7:36 2nd: Shaun Livingston hits the second free throw

9:50 4th: Quinn Cook misses a 12-foot floating jumper in the lane

4:45 3rd: Kevin Durant makes a 16-foot turnaround fade away from the left wing...

5:18 4th: Layup by Kevon Looney

8:31 1st: Alley-oop dunk by JaVale McGee assisted by Kevin Durant

1:06 2nd: Layup by Kevon Looney

:04.9 2nd: Kevin Durant hits the third free throw

:07.1 3rd: Kevin Durant misses an 18-foot pullup jumper from the left wing

:31.8 4th: Quinn Cook misses the first free throw

11:00 4th: David West makes a 19-foot jumper from the top of the key assisted...

6:42 3rd: Klay Thompson misses a 29-foot three-pointer from the right wingYou might not fully comprehend the relationship between cause and effect today. Normally, the results of your behavior are quite predictable, especially if your goal is known to others. Your intentions may be simple and your actions straightforward, yet nothing seems to go as planned now. Instead of analyzing every one of your actions to see how each contributes to an unexpected change of direction, concentrate every ounce of your energy into being the best version of you. Eckhart Tolle wrote, Realize deeply that the present moment is all you ever have. Get Your Complete Cosmic ProfileA teenager died in a Honda Odyssey due to a feature the company has used in its vehicles for decadesAndrew Kerr, a former tech executive at Hospital Corporation of America, began studying business leaders a few years ago across many industries, including healthcare, politics, and sports. He saw how frequently “they’d put in the work, and achieve a certain level of success, and then all of a sudden they would make a critical mistake, and often it was a self-inflicted wound… And I sort of got tired of this story, I got tired of seeing people rise and then all of a sudden trip up over themselves.”

He determined that what these leaders lacked was humility, and he began teaching a course on the topic that led to his book, “The Humility Imperative: Why The Humble Leader Wins in an Age of Ego.” The book is particularly relevant right now to recent business news like the resignation of Uber CEO Travis Kalanick or the fall of red-hot biotech startup Theranos.

“When you look at Silicon Valley, a lot of outsized egos out there,” says Kerr. “Certainly to be a leader, you have to be confident. And you can be aggressive, and you can be bold, but you want to be aggressive and bold on behalf of your organization, not for yourself. Ask the folks that worked at Theranos or Uber if they wish their leaders had had more humility over this past year. I think you would get a pretty positive answer.”

There’s someone else you might think Kerr’s book could apply to: President Donald Trump, whose first year in office has been characterized by “fire and fury,” often in the form of tweets calling out world leaders or criticizing NFL team owners, to name just two examples.

“I wrote the book during the election season, and that subtitle about the age of ego, that was certainly on my mind during the election season,” Kerr says.

President Donald J. Trump. (WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) More

Yahoo Finance asked Kerr for his analysis of Trump’s level of humility. He says Trump is charismatic, but also narcissistic—and that’s dangerous to the organization he leads, which is now the US government.

“He fits into this category of what we call a charismatic leader—these are typically leaders that are very bold, they’re eloquent communicators, but they lead by force of their personality. And for better or for worse, these are the type of leaders that we tend to promote and we tend to elect,” Kerr says.

“The downside with the president is if you look at him and study him, you see that he has a lot of qualities of a narcissist. We used to actually say this is okay for CEOs to be somewhat narcissistic, because it makes them very driven. Well, better research has come out and said that these narcissistic leaders have a couple tendencies that really put their organization at a disadvantage.”

Kerr continues, “They’re very sensitive to social praise and criticism. Look at Twitter. And they’re not very sensitive to objective measures of their performance—they don’t really care how they’re actually doing, it’s just the perception of how they’re doing. The last one that you can really see is narcissistic leaders tend to have really high boom and bust cycles.”

Never said when an attack on Syria would take place. Could be very soon or not so soon at all! In any event, the United States, under my Administration, has done a great job of ridding the region of ISIS. Where is our “Thank you America?” — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2018





Are there examples out there right now of more obviously humble leaders? They’re hard to find, says Kerr, who now works as a partner at a tech consultancy in Nashville, Tenn., called FortyAU. Humble leaders are more rare, Kerr says, because the truly humble ones don’t get as much press attention—because they don’t seek it. He does believe new Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella is one example.

“They’re not as well known, they don’t get as much press, and yet they outperform the market by three times what their competitors did who were celebrity CEOs,” he says. “That’s why I’m trying to say, Hey, this is actually not a ‘nice to have’ for leaders, it should be an imperative for every leader to look at their humility.”

—

Daniel Roberts covers sports business, tech, and media at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter at @readDanwrite.



Read more:

Uber, Airbnb CEOs walk a tightrope in Trump era

Trump is putting NFL owners in a corner

How NFL sponsors are responding to Trump’s national anthem crusade

Donald Trump’s war on the NFL dates back to 1986

Steve Madden ‘particularly upset’ over Trump’s criticism of Colin KaepernickIt’s tax time! Your taxes are due April 17, 2018, but if you’re a procrastinator — don’t worry! Fourteen million tax returns were filed after the deadline last year, and most of them filed the necessary extension paperwork. (Make sure you’re not one of the two million who were late and didn’t file for an extension!)

You can extend your deadline to file your return until October 15, 2018. But remember, you can’t extend your deadline to pay; any taxes you owe are still due in April. If you miss the deadline and you owe, you’ll get hit with a late fee and interest. And IRS interest isn’t like credit card interest; it accrues daily, not monthly.

When you file for an extension, you’ll have to estimate what you’ll owe in taxes. Get as far on your return as you can in order to make the best estimate. Then pay it here, and select “extension” from the drop-down menu.

If you know you’re not going to meet the deadline, file for an extension. Some states may require you to file a separate extension there too, so make sure you check your state’s rules.

Watch more

Yahoo Finance Live Tax Q&A

Your tax questions answered – Part 2FILE PHOTO - A man holds an iPhone as he visits Sina's Weibo microblogging site in Shanghai May 29, 2012. REUTERS/Carlos Barria

SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's Sina Weibo will remove gay and violent content, including pictures, cartoons and text posts, during a three-month clean-up campaign, the microblogging platform said.

Friday's announcement comes amid a clampdown targeting content across social media platforms as China's leaders look to tighten their grip on a huge and diverse cultural scene popular with the young.

Weibo announced the move on its official administrator's account, saying the action aimed to comply with China's new cyber security law that calls for strict data surveillance.

The post drew more than 24,000 comments, was forwarded more than 110,000 times, and prompted users to protest against the decision, using the hashtag "I am gay".

"I am gay and I'm proud, even if I get taken down there are tens of millions like me!," said one poster, who used the handle "rou wan xiong xiong xiong xiong" and posted a photo of himself.

Some posts were quickly blocked by the platform, with the message displayed that they contained "illegal content".

This week, news and online content portal Toutiao, which is luring investors, was forced to pull a joke sharing app after a watchdog denounced its "vulgar and improper content".

Award-winning gay romance "Call Me By Your Name" was also dropped from a Chinese film festival last month. Homosexuality is not illegal in China, but activists say the conservative attitudes of some parts of society have prompted occasional government clampdowns.

Weibo has so far cleared 56,243 pieces of content, shut 108 user accounts and removed 62 topics considered to have violated its standards, it added.





(Reporting by Brenda Goh; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)The U.S. and Russia are threatening to fight in Syria, and these are their top weaponsFILE PHOTO: A view of one of two Rolls Royce Trent 1000 engines of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner during a media tour of the aircraft ahead of the Singapore Airshow in Singapore February 12, 2012. REUTERS/Edgar Su/File Photo

By Kate Holton

LONDON (Reuters) - Rolls-Royce <RR.L> requires more money and more inspections to fix problems with Trent 1000 engines on Boeing <BA.N> 787 Dreamliner planes, leading to further disruption for airlines and testing relations between Rolls and its customers.

Problems with engine turbine blades wearing out sooner than expected have hampered a restructuring program prompted by the engineering company's declining older engine program and plunging demand for oil equipment.

It said on Friday that more regular inspections are required and would lead "to higher than previously guided cash costs being incurred during 2018".

"We sincerely regret the disruption this will cause to our customers," CEO Warren East said in a statement.

Airlines have already been forced to alter schedules or lease other aircraft, but the latest issues could be more far-reaching.

The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) plans to reduce the amount of time the affected planes can fly on a single engine after a failure of the other. The time limit would drop as low as 140 minutes, compared with the current window of 330 minutes, a source familiar with the plans said.

This effectively curtails operations across oceans or remote areas.

The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) will also order increased inspections of affected engines in line with actions outlined by Rolls-Royce. Currently inspections must be carried out after every 200 flight cycles.

The two advisories are due to be issued on Friday, the source said.

Rolls said it would reprioritize spending to mitigate the costs and kept its 2018 free cash flow guidance unchanged at about 450 million pounds ($643 million), give or take 100 million pounds.

Shares in Rolls, one of the biggest names in British manufacturing, were down 1.3 percent by 1251 GMT.

It announced the need for stepped up inspections after liaising with authorities over a separate issue with the compressor on Trent 1000 Package C series engines. Rolls said there were 380 such engines in service.

Boeing said that about 25 percent of the Dreamliners flying were powered by the engine and it was deploying support teams to help to manage service disruptions.

General Electric <GE.N> engines used on some Boeing 787 Dreamliners are not affected.





ENGINE SHORTAGES

The need to inspect and repair Trent 1000 engines has led to an industry-wide shortage.

CEO East said Rolls was working with Boeing and airlines to minimize the disruption.

"Our team of technical experts and service engineers is working around the clock to ensure we return them to full service as soon as possible," he said.

Norwegian Air, which has the engines in 15 of its 27 Boeing 787s, said it hopes to have inspected all of its engines before May 26 and that it had already found one problem that required an engine to be replaced.

"It's disappointing and frustrating that our new aircraft don't work the way they are supposed to," spokesman Lasse Sandaker-Nilsen said, adding that it had canceled a flight from Paris to New York next week as a result.

"We have an ongoing dialogue with both Boeing and Rolls-Royce and we have been told this problem has their full attention."

Virgin Atlantic [VA.UL] has up to four 787s grounded at any one time while it sources replacement engines with Rolls and has also leased three Airbus A330-200s to help to cover its flying program.

A Virgin spokeswoman said it had been aware of the increased inspections announced on Friday and that the cover it had in place would be sufficient.

British Airways <ICAG.L>, Japan's ANA <9202.T>, Air New Zealand <AIR.NZ> and Thai Airways, which also use Trent 1000 engines, were not available for immediate comment.

Scoot, a budget carrier owned by Singapore Airlines <SIAL.SI>, said it expected some impact on operations.

In December the EASA ordered airlines to replace some Trent 1000 engines.

In March, Rolls said the cash hit from the problem should peak at 340 million pounds in 2018 before falling in 2019.





(Additional reporting by Tim Hepher, Joachim Dagenborg, Victoria Bryan, and Jamie Freed; Editing by David Goodman and Jason Neely)Microsoft has given up 'significant sales' over concerns that the customer will use AI for evil, says a top scientist (MSFT)Zillow Group Inc (NASDAQ:AG) is expanding its home retail options to buying and flipping homes.

Zillow to Buy and Flip Homes in Phoenix and Las Vegas More

This change will have the company buying homes in the Phoenix and Las Vegas areas from sellers. These sellers are given an Instant Offer for their property. Once the person chooses to sell the property, Zillow will repair and update it before listing it on the market again.

Zillow says that the advantage of this offering is that it gives sellers more certainty about the deal. This includes not having to worry about a fluctuating price, or when the sale will take place. However, they may have to take a hit to the original price they were hoping to sell the home for to a buyer in the real estate market.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Zillow will have special real estate agents that will handle buying and selling the homes in these markets. The agents will earn commission from the sell prices of the homes. They will also provide sellers with an Instant Offer for their home two days after completing an analysis of the location.

This isn’t actually the first time that Zillow has taken part in buying and flipping homes. It first tested out the Instant Offer program back in May 2017. During this time, the special service was only available for home sellers in Las Vegas and Orlando. It says that these tests will expand to include Phoenix this month.

ZG stock was down 8% as of Friday afternoon.

More From InvestorPlace

As of this writing, William White did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.

Compare Brokers

The post Zillow to Buy and Flip Homes in Phoenix and Las Vegas appeared first on InvestorPlace.Advanced Micro Devices on Friday unveiled the second generation update to its groundbreaking Ryzen chips for personal computers, but unlike last year’s initial debut, the reception so far has been muted at best.

The new chips, available for pre-order immediately and arriving on Apr. 19, are faster and cheaper than last year’s models. But AMD didn’t disclose any new hardware features, performance tests, or comparison benchmarks to chips from archrival Intel, which just released a host of new, faster processors of its own. Shares of AMD, which have been volatile in 2018, lost almost 2% to $9.92 in midday trading on Friday. The shares are down 19% over the past year.

The slump reflects AMD’s difficult challenge competing with Intel in the CPU market and Nvidia in the graphics chip market. Despite AMD CEO Lisa Su’s strategy to abandon older designs and develop all new, groundbreaking chips with Ryzen for PCs, the Epyc chip for servers, and the Vega line for graphics, the company is still having difficulty catching its much larger peers. Intel blunted some of AMD’s momentum by adding an “i9” high-performance chip to its line up that had topped out with the “i7.” And Nvidia is still dominating selling graphics chips into the booming market in cloud data centers that run machine learning and artificial intelligence tasks. Investors also have concerns about possibly volatile sales related to digital currency mining and a deal Su struck with Intel for combined CPU and graphics chips. The defection of AMD’s lead graphic designer, Raja Kudori, to Intel in November probably didn’t help assuage investors, either.

Get Data Sheet, Fortune’s technology newsletter.

On the surface, AMD had a strong year in 2017. Sales rose 25% to $5.3 billion and Su managed to turn a 60 cents per share loss in 2016 into a modest 4 cents-a-share profit. But AMD gained only a few percentage points of market share against Intel intc and investors had been hoping to see profit margins and earnings per share improve more quickly, too.

It was a little over a year ago that AMD’s long-depressed stock price rose above $12 a share for the first time since 2007. The huge gain—the stock had been as low as $1.83 in 2016—reflected investor enthusiasm for Su’s strategy. But after peaking at almost $16 per share last July, investors have largely been disappointed in AMD’s results and concerned about the cryptocurrency factor.

Analysts haven’t been able to figure out exactly how much of AMD’s sales strength last year was due to the rise of digital currency mining. Groups that “mine” ethereum and several other major cryptocurrencies by crunching transaction records for new coin rewards have relied on graphics chips from AMD and Nvidia nvda . As the price of the currencies rose last year, the groups had incentives to devote ever greater computing resources to their mining efforts. But lately, digital currency prices have crashed to earth and graphics chip sales could suffer.

The new AMD chips announced on Friday go on sale Apr. 19. The top of the line Ryzen 2700X, which will sell for $329, has 8 processing cores and runs at a top speed of 4.3 GHz. That compares to last year’s similar Ryzen 1800X which also had 8 cores, a top speed of 4 GHz, but sold for $500 when it debuted.

AMD amd said it would release more details, including performance comparisons, on Apr. 19. The new chips are manufactured at a scale of 12 nanometers, down from 14 nm for last year’s Ryzen line, which should make them more energy efficient and higher performing.Jim Cramer says that when President Trump takes a Twitter break, Amazon is the stock you want to have.Microsoft





At a conference this week, Microsoft Research scientist and leader Eric Horvitz says that the company has given up "significant sales" because it was worried the customer would use AI for not-good purposes.

Microsoft clarifies with Business Insider that the company has never cut off an existing contract over these concerns, but has turned customers away.

Horvitz says that Microsoft has also placed contractual limits on what customers can do with AI, for ethical reasons.



Long-time Microsoft scientist Eric Horvitz says that the software company takes AI ethics so seriously, “significant sales have been cut off" because it was concerned that the potential customer would use its technology for no good.

Horvitz, a director and technical fellow with Microsoft Research, made his remarks on stage at Carnegie Mellon University's K&L Gates Conference on Ethics and AI on Monday, as originally reported by GeekWire.

I got in touch with Microsoft for more clarity on Horvitz's remarks. The company confirmed that Microsoft had never cut off a deal with an existing customer — Horvitz was referring to the loss of possible revenue from potential customers.

“Microsoft may decide to forego the pursuit of business proposals for numerous reasons, including the company’s commitment to upholding human rights," a spokesperson tells Business Insider.

Beyond just cutting off those deals, Horvitz says that Microsoft has placed limitations on what customers can do with its AI tech: “And in other sales, various specific limitations were written down in terms of usage, including ‘may not use data-driven pattern recognition for use in face recognition or predictions of this type,'" he said, per GeekWire.

That's an unusual point for Horvitz to make: Microsoft itself offers cloud-based services for developers to easily put facial recognition capabilities into their software. Still, Horvitz's remarks indicate that Microsoft is willing to place limits on what customers can and can't do with artificial intelligence. Microsoft declined to comment any further on that point.

"This committee has teeth"

In a more general sense, Horvitz was discussing Aether, an acronym for "AI and ethics in engineering and research," which is Microsoft's overall AI ethical oversight committee. “It’s been an intensive effort … and I’m happy to say that this committee has teeth,” Horvitz said.

“We believe it is very important to develop and deploy AI in a responsible, trusted and ethical manner. Microsoft created the Aether committee to identify, study and recommend policies, procedures, and best practices on questions, challenges, and opportunities coming to the fore on influences of AI on people and society," says a Microsoft spokesperson.

This approach is generally in line with Microsoft's public profile: The company's leadership has made much of the idea of ethical artificial intelligence, urging researchers, developers, and consumers to be responsible in how they use the technology.

"[We] want people to go forward in ways that are well informed, that are thoughtful, and in a sense, a commitment to shared responsibility. It is going to take a broad commitment to shared responsibility in order to ensure that AI is used well," Microsoft President Brad Smith told Business Insider earlier this year.

At the same time, the ethical use of AI is a hot topic in Silicon Valley: Earlier in April, Google employees petitioned the company's leadership to stop providing artificial intelligence to the military for use in drones.

NOW WATCH: Humanity could be waste-free if we lived in a Circular Economy — here's how it would work

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Thousands of Google employees asked CEO Sundar Pichai to stop providing AI tech for the US military's dronesScott A. Miller/Getty





Citron Research has placed a $230,000 charity bet on its Nvidia position after some light prodding from CNBC host Jim Cramer.

The noted short-seller has a $230 price target for Nvidia, which was the top performing S&P 500 stock in 2017.

Follow Nvidia's stock price in real-time here.

Nvidia might have been the best performing S&P 500 stock in 2017, but the bears see it's rise as a potential money maker for short-selling.

After CNBC host Jim Cramer prodded Citron Research for Nvidia surging past the firm's $170 price target it set in June 2017, the firm fired back, saying it would donate $230,000 to the Humane Society if the stock is still above $230 in a year.

Citron cramer Nvidia tweet More

Twitter

It's unclear if Cramer has accepted the bet, or what's at stake for the Mad Money host if Nvidia's share price drops as much as Citron predicts. One thing is for certain, Cramer sticks up for his dog, aptly named for the chipmaker.

Jim Cramer dog tweet More

Twitter

It's not an unusual move for Citron. The company, headed by Andrew Left, regularly publishes bearish reports on companies it thinks are overvalued.

Most recently, the firm singled out upstart furniture company Wayfair. Before that, it was Twitter.

Nvidia was the best performing S&P 500 stock in 2017, up 79%, and Wall Street analysts surveyed by Bloomberg remain optimistic, with an average price target of $251, 7% above where shares were trading Friday afternoon.

Nvidia stock price More

Markets Insider

NOW WATCH: Wall Street's biggest bull explains why trade war fears are way overblown

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Nvidia surges after multiple Wall Street upgradesNow is a good time to look at dividend stocks to buy and hold. While there’s no doubt that the market averages were on a roll going in 2018, that incredible momentum slowed a bit when January changed to February. The tax cuts in late December added a lot of fuel to stocks’ fire, but a market correction was lurking around the corner.

If the economy expands and the global economy stays in recovery mode, this could see stock indexes soar once again. Especially when you look to the big blue chips that dominate the averages.

The big firms are doing business outside the U.S., and the dollar is weakening as interest rates rise. As Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin observed in Davos recently, a weaker dollar is good for exports and the Trump administration is in favor of boosting exports.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

But for all this good news, a changing market — with the potential for an inverted yield curve in interest rates, rising inflation and less consumer strength than anticipated — may bring on a correction.

That’s why now is a good time to buy some solid insurance while it’s cheap. That’s why I’ve come up with nine impressive dividend stocks to buy and hold. They have longevity and will weather any near-term storms.

[Editor’s Note: This article was originally published Feb. 2, 2018, but has been edited to reflect changes in the markets.]





Impressive Dividend Stocks to Buy and Hold: Verizon (VZ)

vz stock More

Source: Mike Mozart Via Flickr

Dividend: 59 cents, paid quarterly

Verizon Communications Inc (NYSE:VZ) is a blue-chip communications pick with a solid 4.9% dividend.

Whether it’s fiber optic cable, mobile communications or content delivered directly to its customers, Verizon is focused on maintaining its dominant position in the market. Recent deals on the content side show that VZ is very aware that how your subscribers get content is less valuable than what content they get.

There will certainly be competition in the space, which could mean customers come and go, but VZ has shored both its ‘cable’ end and its wireless side, so any cable cutters will still find value in sticking with VZ.

And the dividend is rock solid.





Impressive Dividend Stocks to Buy and Hold: AES Corp (AES)

Source: Shutterstock

Dividend: 13 cents quarterly

AES Corp (NYSE:AES) was a major player in the utility deregulation boom that swept through the markets in the 1990s. Think Enron, as both the bullish story and the cautionary tale.

AES has operations in the U.S., South America, Central America and the Caribbean. But it is one of those independent energy producers that doesn’t get a lot of press because it doesn’t fit into a tidy box.

AES remains a solid company, however, and delivers a 4.5% dividend. What’s more, emerging markets are starting a boom phase after their bottom. And with Brazil making a comeback — and AES having operations there — things are looking up for this stock on the growth side of equation.





Impressive Dividend Stocks to Buy and Hold: Public Storage (PSA)

Source: Mike Mozart Via Flickr

Dividend: $2.00, quarterlyThe stock market has been volatile over the past few months, partly thanks to President Donald Trump's proposals for new tariffs aimed at China and other trading partners. However, patient investors can ride out the storm with three of my favorite dividend stocks -- AT&T; (NYSE: T), Johnson & Johnson (NYSE: JNJ), and Las Vegas Sands (NYSE: LVS).

A classic dividend play

AT&T has raised its dividend annually for over three decades, making it a Dividend Aristocrat. AT&T currently pays a forward dividend yield of 5.6%, which is nearly triple the S&P 500's average yield of 2%. It spent just 68% of its free cash flow on dividends over the past 12 months, meaning it has enough money to cover the dividend, making a dividend decrease unlikely.

Paper money rains down on a smiling woman. More

Image source: Getty Images.

AT&T is America's second-largest wireless carrier, top wireline services provider, and biggest pay TV provider. If its planned takeover of Time Warner (NYSE: TWX) is approved, it will also become one of the biggest media companies in the world.

That massive ecosystem gives Ma Bell plenty of bundling options -- selling people more than one service -- which widens its edge over competitors like Verizon and T-Mobile. AT&T's stock is currently weighed down by near-term headwinds -- including slowing smartphone upgrades in the U.S., losses of video subscribers, high debt levels, antitrust concerns about the Time Warner buyout, and higher interest rates knocking down interest in dividend stocks.

But over the long term, AT&T has repeatedly bounced back from micro and macro challenges while generating steady income for patient investors. The stock is fairly insulated from the trade clashes between the U.S. and China, and its downside potential should be limited by its high yield and its low forward https://www.fool.com/investing/general/2015/01/17/how-to-use-the-pe-ratio.aspxP/E of 10.

A healthcare stock for all seasons

Johnson & Johnson's three core businesses -- pharmaceutical products, consumer healthcare, and medical devices -- are so well-diversified that it's tough for any headwind to knock the 132-year-old company off course. J&J's growth might look glacial on a quarterly basis, but it's generated slow and steady growth over the years.

Between 2007 and 2017, its annual revenue rose 25% and its adjusted earnings per share jumped 76%. Its stock nearly doubled over the past decade. The company pays a forward dividend yield of 2.6%, and it's raised its payout annually for over five decades -- which makes it another dependable Dividend Aristocrat. Those hikes, which used up just 50% of J&J's free cash flow over the past 12 months, should continue for the foreseeable future.

Trade tensions, a soft dollar, and generic competition for former blockbuster drugs like Remicade are all near-term headwinds for J&J, but analysts still expect its revenue and earnings to rise 6% and 11%, respectively, this year. Those are solid growth figures for an all-weather stock that trades at just 16 times forward earnings.

Let the house pay you

Las Vegas Sands is the biggest casino operator in the world. It owns the Venetian and Palazzo in Las Vegas, the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, and five major properties in Macau. Sands generates most of its profits from Asia.One of the best paying dividend stock on our list is Portland General Electric. Dividend stocks are a great way to hedge your portfolio as they provide both steady income and cushion against market risks Dividends play a key role in compounding returns over time and can form a large part of our portfolio return. I’ve made a list of other value-adding dividend-paying stocks for you to consider for your investment portfolio.

Portland General Electric Company (NYSE:POR)

Portland General Electric Company, an integrated electric utility company, engages in the generation, wholesale purchase, transmission, distribution, and retail sale of electricity in the state of Oregon. Established in 1930, and now run by Maria Pope, the company provides employment to 2,906 people and with the stock’s market cap sitting at USD $3.51B, it comes under the mid-cap stocks category.

POR has a nice dividend yield of 3.38% and the company currently pays out 63.82% of its profits as dividends . In the last 10 years, shareholders would have been happy to see the company increase its dividend from US$0.94 to US$1.36. They have been reliable as well, ensuring that shareholders haven’t missed a payment during this 10 year period. Continue research on Portland General Electric here.

NYSE:POR Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

Navient Corporation (NASDAQ:NAVI)

Navient Corporation provides asset management and business processing services to education, health care, and government clients at the federal, state, and local levels in the United States. Formed in 1973, and run by CEO John Remondi, the company currently employs 6,700 people and with the company’s market cap sitting at USD $3.52B, it falls under the mid-cap group.

NAVI has a sumptuous dividend yield of 4.82% and pays 60.27% of it’s earnings as dividends . Although investors would have seen a few years of reduced payments, it has so far always picked up again, with dividends increasing from US$0 to US$0.64 over the past 10 years. Analyst estimates for Navient’s future earnings are certainly promising, predicting a triple digit earnings growth over the next three years. Continue research on Navient here.

NasdaqGS:NAVI Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

United Bankshares, Inc., a financial holding company, primarily provides commercial and retail banking products and services in the United States. Started in 1982, and now run by Richard Adams, the company employs 2,381 people and with the market cap of USD $3.69B, it falls under the mid-cap stocks category.

Story ContinuesShares of GE were spiking higher Friday afternoon, and according to some traders, there could be a bigger breakout on its earnings next week.GE’s 2017 Loss Widens as Results Restated After Rule Change More

General Electric Co. trimmed last year’s earnings by $1.56 billion to align its results with new U.S. accounting rules for sales of industrial equipment.FILE PHOTO: The General Electric logo is pictured on the General Electric offshore wind turbine plant in Montoir-de-Bretagne, near Saint-Nazaire, western France, November 21, 2016. REUTERS/Stephane Mahe/File Photo

By Alwyn Scott

NEW YORK (Reuters) - General Electric Co <GE.N> said on Friday it took a $4.24 billion equity charge and reduced earnings for the last two years by 30 cents a share, figures in line with expectations the company set earlier this year when it said it would comply with new accounting standards.

The maker of power plants, jet engines, medical devices and other industrial goods had estimated the after-tax, non-cash impact would be about $4.2 billion, plus reduced earnings for 2016 and 2017 of about 29 cents a share.

The accounting change prompted GE to recast two years of past financial statements to reflect lower income and asset values under the new standard, and those will be reflected when GE reports first-quarter results on April 20.

The value of GE's contract assets are being written down, but that does not change the value of the long-term contracts GE has, nor does it affect GE's cash flow or earnings estimates for 2018, GE said.

The adjustments appear within expectations, Edward Jones analyst Jeff Windau said. "Now the focus moves to next Friday's earnings."

The figures suggest GE executives have gotten to the bottom of some accounting issues and bolster confidence in Chief Executive Officer John Flannery after a series of financial surprises, including underestimating the impact of insurance policies that prompted a $6.2 billion charge in the fourth quarter, analysts said.

GE shares were down 1 percent at $13.35 in aftermarket trading after rising 2.4 percent on Friday.

The new accounting standard governs how companies estimate and recognise revenue from long-term contracts, and is designed to make a company's cash flow more closely match its income, accounting experts and analysts said.

The prior standard allowed companies to recognise future revenue from such agreements more quickly. The new standard shifts revenue to later in the contract duration, analysts said.

Companies typically use the cost of providing services as a basis for estimating future revenue from the contracts, but the process can lead to over- or under-estimating the value of the contracts as assets on the balance sheet, experts say.

GE's contract asset tally has soared 70 percent to $28.8 billion in 2017, from $16.9 billion in 2014, most of it in its power and aviation units. The majority of the total reflects revenue GE has already booked but for which it has not billed customers, which creates the gap between profit and cash flow, according to GE's regulatory filings.

GE also made adjustments for new accounting standards for pensions, cash flow and taxes on Friday.

GE's accounting is under scrutiny after earnings swung to a loss last year and GE said its 2018 results would be at the low end of its forecasted range of between $1.00 and $1.07 a share.

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into GE's accounting for contract assets, raising investor concern but GE has said it is not overly concerned about the investigation.

GE said in February that it expects to make the adjustments as it switches to the new accounting standards for contracts.

GE said it chose to restate 2016 and 2017 earnings, a more exacting standard under the new rules, because it will allow investors to compare 2018 results with the prior years.





(Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Editing by Bill Rigby and Clive McKeef)Let's take a look at the reasons behind Broadridge's (BR) impressive price performance and see why the company is poised to continue with its momentum in the near term.

It has been about a month since the last earnings report for Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. CPRX. Shares have lost about 7.4% in that time frame.

Will the recent negative trend continue leading up to its next earnings release, or is CPRX due for a breakout? Before we dive into how investors and analysts have reacted as of late, let's take a quick look at the most recent earnings report in order to get a better handle on the important catalysts.

Catalyst Posts In-Line Q4 Loss, Pipeline in Progress

Catalyst reported a loss of 6 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 2017, on par with the Zacks Consensus Estimate. The reported loss was wider than the year-ago loss of 5 cents.

Being a development-stage company, Catalyst Pharma does not have any approved product in its portfolio yet. Hence, the company did not generate any revenues in the quarter.

Quarter in Detail

Research and development (R&D) expenses were $3.4 million, up 20.7% from the year-ago quarter. The costs included expenses related to ongoing studies and trials for Firdapse, costs associated with the Firdapse Expanded Access Program and expenses pertaining to the CPP-115 and generic Sabril programs.

General and administrative expenses totaled $2.1 million, up 41% from the year-ago quarter.

Pipeline Update

Currently, Catalyst has two candidates under development — Firdapse and CPP-115.

The company made significant progress with respect to the second phase III study evaluating Firdapse for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. Catalyst also successfully completed the required abuse liability studies that confirmed that Firdapse does not exhibit abuse potential.

The company also expects to enroll patients in its phase III study for MuSK antibody positive myasthenia gravis in the first half of 2018 and the proof-of-concept study for spinal muscular atrophy Type 3 in the second quarter of 2018.

Meanwhile, the company is on track to resubmit its new drug application for Firdapse in the first quarter of 2018 and is actively engaged in pre-commercialization activities for a potential launch of the same.

The company expects to complete enrollment in the phase III CMS (CMS-001) study before 2018-end and report top-line results it in the first quarter of 2019.

How Have Estimates Been Moving Since Then?

In the past month, investors have witnessed an upward trend in fresh estimates. There has been one revision higher for the current quarter. In the past month, the consensus estimate has shifted by 14.3% due to these changes.

Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Price and Consensus

Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Price and Consensus | Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Quote

VGM Scores

At this time, CPRX has a subpar Growth Score of D, though it is lagging a bit on the momentum front with an F. Following the exact same course, the stock was allocated a grade of F on the value side, putting it in the lowest quintile for this investment strategy.

Overall, the stock has an aggregate VGM Score of F. If you aren't focused on one strategy, this score is the one you should be interested in.

Our style scores indicate investors will probably be better served looking elsewhere.

Outlook

Estimates have been trending upward for the stock and the magnitude of this revision looks promising. Notably, CPRX has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). We expect an in-line return from the stock in the next few months.



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (CPRX) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.While less than 1 percent of individual taxpayers are audited, there are items on your tax return that may trigger scrutiny from the IRS.Should you spend or save your tax refund? More

According to the IRS, 111 million Americans received tax refunds in 2017, and the average amount was nearly $3,000.00. Adam Sasiveri, Director of Bernstein Private Wealth Management, joins CBSN to discuss how to do something meaningful with your extra cash.In order to be successful, it's not enough just to save. You also have to know how to put the money you save to best use. That means knowing about some of the ways that the IRS offers tax benefits to those who take advantage of certain types of accounts, and using them to the fullest extent possible.

In particular, there are two tax breaks that the IRS offers every year, and most taxpayers can use one or both of them. But to use them, you have to act quickly, because the deadline for adding money to these accounts for the 2017 tax year is approaching fast. Below, we'll look at these two different tax breaks -- IRAs and health savings accounts -- and whether you can benefit from using one or both of them in your financial planning.

Wall with Internal Revenue Service engraved. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Get money into an IRA

If you've made money from a regular job, a side gig, or your own business, then you're allowed to save money in an IRA. The limit for the 2017 tax year is $5,500 if you're younger than 50 or $6,500 if you're 50 or older, as long as you've earned at least that much during the year. The deadline for making contributions for 2017 is the tax filing deadline of April 17, 2018. Even if you get an extension to file your taxes, you can't get extra time to open an IRA.

Investors can choose between two different types of IRAs: Roth or traditional. A traditional IRA offers an upfront tax deduction that you can take on your 2017 tax return, saving you in taxes right now. A Roth IRA doesn't offer a deduction, but it does produce tax-free income even when you take withdrawals in retirement. Various income limits determine whether you can make a contribution to a Roth IRA at all, as well as whether you can deduct the contributions you make to a traditional IRA. Nevertheless, there's always at least some type of IRA that's available for you to use to save for retirement.

Can an HSA help you?

Health savings accounts are special savings vehicles intended for use in paying healthcare expenses. If you have coverage under a high-deductible health plan, then HSAs let you set aside money that you can later use toward qualifying care. Covered costs include not only doctor visits, prescription drugs, and medical procedures, but also the co-payments that you have to make with regular health insurance.

Not all health insurance counts as high-deductible. Your policy has to have minimum deductibles of $1,300 for single coverage or $2,600 for family coverage in order to qualify as an HDHP, and if it doesn't, then you can't make an HSA contribution.

If your insurance does qualify, then you can contribute up to $3,400 for self-only coverage or $6,750 for family coverage for the 2017 tax year. The contributions are tax-deductible on your 2017 return, and the money comes out on a tax-free basis as long as you use it to pay covered medical expenses. But to take advantage of favorable tax treatment for HSA contributions for 2017, you have to get money into your account by the April 17 tax filing deadline.

Act now

With just hours before the end of tax season, it's coming down to crunch time for those hoping to take advantage of these two tax breaks. But it's not too late. If you act fast, then you can just make it and potentially come up with thousands of dollars of last-minute tax savings.

More From The Motley Fool

The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.It’s one of the toughest questions to answer this year: amid all the fears and uncertainties in the broader markets, why haven’t gold stocks jumped in valuation? The traditional safe haven asset hasn’t looked good since collapsing in 2013. And despite some promising developments, every move up is seemingly fiercely contested.

Although it’s a tired sentiment, investors should note that this time could really be different. For one thing, the bullion sector, and to a large degree, gold stocks, perform well during periods of market fear. Honestly, what better word describes the current mainstream emotion? Although the benchmark indices have recently put up strong numbers, the Dow Jones is still down 1.6% year-to-date.

Next, we have to consider the Trump factor. Our President doesn’t lack anything in the confidence department, but political competency is another matter. No, I’m not delivering a cheap shot at our Commander-in-Chief. Rather, I’m suggesting that his diplomatic skills will be tested in a baptism of fire. Maybe it will work out, or maybe it won’t. Either way, gold stocks to buy don’t seem like a bad idea!

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Finally, gold prices may see a seasonality boost. Since 1999, the second quarter on a year-over-year basis produces the strongest gains. Granted, the margins are small: the second quarter averages 10.1% YOY returns, while the worst quarter (the first) produces 9.6% returns. Still, it is a statistical advantage.

With all that’s going on right now, precious metals are a smart play. Here are seven gold stocks that will find a momentum burst this spring!





7 Gold Stocks to Buy: Barrick Gold Corp (USA) (ABX)

Barrick Gold Corp (USA) (NYSE:ABX) More

Source: Shutterstock

One of the biggest temptations in gold stocks is seeking out the cheapest name possible. While that could be a lucrative play, the probabilities aren’t very favorable. Instead, with a potential industry upturn on the horizon, you should load up with quality investments. In the precious metals mining sector, few are as renowned as Barrick Gold Corp (USA) (NYSE:ABX).

ABX stock is intriguing particularly due to its fundamentals. Unlike lesser firms that simply folded during the metals fallout, Barrick rolled up their sleeves and got to work. Recognizing top-line hardships, management made tough but necessary decisions to streamline the organization. The results are conspicuous. Over the last four years, SGA expenses declined from $412 million to $301 million, or a 27% reduction.

Other unnecessary operating expenses were eliminated, helping to free up $66 million from four years prior. Thanks to their efforts, ABX went from losing $2.9 billion in 2014 to producing $655 million, and $1.44 billion in net income over the past two years.

But despite these significant achievements, ABX stock is down 12.6%. I think this is an overreaction. Barrick is a much leaner and more efficient company than it was during the metals downturn. In addition, it’s also profitable – something that not too many in the sector can say.





7 Gold Stocks to Buy: Royal Gold, Inc (USA) (RGLD)

7 Gold Stocks to Buy: Royal Gold, Inc (USA) (RGLD) More

Source: Shutterstock

Pure gold mining operations tend to be all-or-nothing affairs: either the project produces gold and other precious metals, or it does not. I understand that this scenario appeals to many gold stocks investors; however, other people want a reasonable exposure level to the mining industry. For the latter, Royal Gold, Inc (USA) (NASDAQ:RGLD) fits the bill perfectly.Following the departure of legendary casino mogul Steve Wynn from his Wynn Resorts, Limited (NASDAQ: WYNN) earlier this year, speculation is growing as to whether one of the other casino companies will make a run at WYNN. Las Vegas Sands Corp. (NYSE: LVS) would certainly seem to be one possibility.

Steve Wynn has sold off his stake in the company he founded. And his former wife is unlikely to stand in the way of an acquisition, given that she can cash out of her holdings in the process. It makes this scenario seem very reasonable.

The first thing I look at in this situation is whether an acquisition would even be feasible. Wynn Resorts has a $20 billion market cap and had operating income last year of $1.06 billion. This was nearly double the amount for 2016. The multi-year nightmare of Macau seems to finally be coming to a close. The Chinese government appears to have finally backed off on its crackdown on rich people who go and play big-money tables and Macau.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

WYNN is sitting on a little over $3 billion in cash, with long-term debt at $9.56 billion. That debt set the company back $389 million in interest payments in 2017. However, the good news is the company finally generated positive free cash flow again, to the tune of $940 million last year. This came after several years of negative free cash flow.

Wynn Resorts stock has a valuation of $19.9 billion. That’s a little over three times revenue, almost eight times gross profit, and almost 20 times operating income.

Las Vegas Sands Stock Valuation

Las Vegas Sands stock has a valuation of $56 billion. However, the valuation metrics for LVS stock are quite different. LVS stock has a valuation of 4.3 times revenue, about 8.8 times gross profit and almost 14 times operating income. However, there is a critical difference between Las Vegas Sands stock and its potential target. LVS stock has a far more diversified business than Wynn Resorts has ever had.

Las Vegas Sands does not merely own one resort in Macau. It owns The Venetian Macau Resort Hotel, the Sands Cotai Central, The Parisian Macau, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macau, Cotai Strip, and the Sands Macao in Macau; and Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. The company also owns and operates The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino and The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino on the Las Vegas Strip; the Sands Expo and Convention Center in Las Vegas; and the Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

Consequently Las Vegas Sands stock has had robust operating income for several years, hitting $3.46 billion in 2017 alone. It has also had plenty of free cash flow over the years. In 2015, it generated $1.9 billion in free cash flow. In 2016, it generated $2.6 billion in free cash flow and 2017 resulted in $3.7 billion in free cash flow. Las Vegas Sands stock price is also holding up well because it carries about $2.4 billion in cash and $9.3 billion in debt, costing at $327 million annually in interest payments.

Potential Impact on Las Vegas Sands Stock

I don’t see any reason why management must go after Wynn, but the acquisition would certainly make sense. It would help to further establish its presence in both Las Vegas and Macau — arguably, when stock is cheap in terms of valuation based on revenue and gross profit.

I could see a modest 10% premium being offered to shareholders — especially considering that their legendary and visionary CEO is no longer at the helm. What does a $22 billion purchase look like? It’s probably an all-stock deal. Las Vegas Sands stock owners would have to assume Wynn resorts debt on top of the $9 billion they already have themselves.

The one obstacle is that it could result in about 30% dilution of Las Vegas Sands shareholders. The question then is whether they are getting 30% value added to their company. As it turns out, that is the case — 30% of $3.46 billion of operating income for Las Vegas Sands would be matched by the $1.06 billion in operating income it wins.

So I certainly see this as a possible play for Las Vegas Sands. The question is whether MGM resorts is going to compete for that bed, as I suspect it will.

Lawrence Meyers is the CEO of PDL Capital, a specialty lender focusing on consumer finance. Meyers is the manager of The Liberty Portfolio at www.thelibertyportfolio.com. He does not own any stock mentioned. He has 23 years of experience in the stock market, and has written more than 2,000 articles on investing. Lawrence Meyers can be reached at TheLibertyPortfolio@gmail.com.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Expect Las Vegas Sands Corp. to Bid for Wynn Resorts appeared first on InvestorPlace.Apr.13 -- Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V., discusses leadership changes in the auto industry, North American profit margins, and rewarding shareholders. He speaks with Bloomberg's Tommaso Ebhardt in Amsterdam.President Trump issued an unexpected executive order Thursday night creating a federal task force to investigate the U.S. Postal Service’s finances, including its pricing and workforce costs.

“The USPS is on an unsustainable financial path and must be restructured to prevent a taxpayer-funded bailout,” the executive order reads.

The Postal Service on Friday said it welcomed the task force and that changes to the legal requirements under which it operates are needed: “As we have repeatedly stressed, these business model problems are serious, but solvable, and the President’s executive order … provides an opportunity to further consider these important public policy issues.”

The new task force will be led by Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin or his designee, with help from the directors of the Office of Management and Budget and Office of Personnel Management. The group will be required to issue a report outlining proposed reforms within 120 days.

Here's what else you need to know:

Yes, the Postal Service is losing billions: As the executive order points out, the Postal Service has lost more than $65 billion since 2007. It reported a net loss of $2.7 billion last year, its eleventh straight year of net losses.

But it does not get direct taxpayer support: The USPS is a government agency, but it is run as an independent business, meaning that your tax dollars don’t directly fund it. “The Postal Service receives NO tax dollars for operating expenses and relies on the sale of postage, products and services to fund its operations,” the USPS website says. Postal rates are overseen by an independent commission.

The executive order is about Amazon.com: Though the executive order does not mention Amazon by name, it was widely interpreted as an escalation of Trump’s long-running criticisms of the online retail giant, which the president has accused of bilking the postal service by not paying appropriate postage rates for package delivery. The USPS says that it is legally prohibited from charging Amazon and other shippers less than its delivery service costs, and that regulators have repeatedly examined and approved the Amazon deal.

But Amazon is probably helping, not killing, the USPS: A Citigroup analysis last year reportedly said that Postal Service prices would have to be increased by $1.46 per package in 2017, $1.41 in 2018 and $1.31 in 2019 to reflect the true costs of delivery and close its revenue shortfall. But most analysts say that the massive number of packages shipped by Amazon is helping USPS finances as the volume of first-class letter delivery and other types of mail continues to decline. And the Citigroup analyst who wrote the original report clarified recently that Amazon's business could indeed be profitable for the USPS. Amazon likely gets a volume discount on its packages, but the Postal Service isn’t losing money from the deal. However, the task force might suggest that USPS charge Amazon and other companies more for parcel delivery.

At the same time, the Postal Service’s package delivery business is growing: The post office’s fiscal report for 2017 shows that packages and shipping brought in $19.5 billion in revenue, or 28 percent of the total for the year. Revenue from packages grew by more than $2 billion from the prior year, by far the most of any service category. "Although we continue to win customers and grow our package business, these gains are not sufficient to offset continuing declines in our mail business, which is our main source of revenue and contribution,” Postmaster General and CEO Megan Brennan said in February.

Trump’s ire may really be about Jeff Bezos and The Washington Post: “White House insiders describe the Amazon-U.S.P.S blowup as a thinly veiled attempt to retaliate against The Washington Post, which Bezos owns, for its frequently critical coverage of his administration,” Vanity Fair’s Maya Kosoff writes.

The executive order might open to door to more privatization: “Some parts of the order appear to hint at further privatization of the Postal Service, indicating that members of the task force should examine ‘the U.S.P.S. role in the U.S. economy and in rural areas, communities, and small towns,’” writes Michael D. Shear in The New York Times.

Story ContinuesAfter criticizing Amazon for costing the U.S. Postal Service money, President Donald Trump has ordered the creation of a task force to study the USPS and its financial difficulties. Jillian Kitchener reports.facebook zuckerberg trial AP 59 Zuck speaking More

Andrew Harnik/AP





Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, testified before Congress this week to explain how Facebook mishandled user data during the Cambridge Analytica scandal.

Chris Hadnagy, a body-language expert, said Zuckerberg seemed stoic and relatively emotionless, and didn't display any signs of sadness.

That means he missed a prime opportunity to earn listeners' forgiveness, since sadness is known to elicit sympathy and empathy from observers.



Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg spent nearly 10 hours testifying before Congress this week, answering questions about how Facebook mishandled user data during the Cambridge Analytica scandal.

But he missed a prime opportunity to win back listeners and earn their forgiveness.

According to Chris Hadnagy, a body language expert and the author of "Unmasking the Social Engineer," Zuckerberg didn't show any signs of sadness in either his facial expressions or his body language. Instead, Hadnagy said, Zuckerberg looked "stoic," "controlled," and relatively emotionless.

Hadnagy has worked with Paul Ekman, a psychologist known for his research on "microexpressions," or the subtle movement of facial muscles that communicate different emotions. Hadnagy said Zuckerberg's stoicism, his stick-to-the-facts approach, and his relative lack of emotion would be more appropriate if he were trying to win an argument.

But given that Zuckerberg was testifying about a mistake Facebook may have made, it would have made more sense for him to show some remorse, Hadnagy said. That's because sadness typically evokes observers' sympathy and empathy. "They let us co-feel emotion," Hadnagy added.

At certain points during the testimony, Zuckerberg looked angry or anxious — emotions that are to be expected in such a stressful circumstance. Yet he never displayed any sadness.

For instance, Hadnagy pointed out that he seemed anxious, with a slight frown, while Senator Feinstein was asking him why Facebook didn't ban Cambridge Analytica in 2015 on Day 1 of the testimony.

mark zuckerberg anxiety More

Screenshot/C-SPAN

And he looked relaxed, his jaw loosened, while addressing Feinstein: "That's a great question. Cambridge Analytica wasn't using our services in 2015, as we can tell."

mark zuckerberg relaxed MoreBy Nate Raymond

BOSTON (Reuters) - Massachusetts' top court on Friday rejected Exxon Mobil Corp's (XOM.N) bid to block the state's attorney general from obtaining records to investigate whether the company for decades concealed its knowledge of the role fossil fuels play in climate change.

The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled Attorney General Maura Healey had jurisdiction to seek records to probe whether the oil company's marketing or sale of fossil fuel products violated the state's consumer protection law.

The ruling marked another setback for Exxon after a federal judge in March dismissed a related lawsuit it filed seeking to block investigations by Healey and New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, both of whom are Democrats.

Exxon argued that because it is incorporated in Texas and New Jersey, Healey had no basis to issue a demand for documents in 2016 to conduct a Massachusetts-based investigation of whether it misled consumers and investors.

But Justice Elspeth Cypher, writing for a 6-0 court, said jurisdiction existed because of Exxon's control over advertising conducted for about 300 franchise gas stations operating under the Exxon and Mobil brands in Massachusetts.

She said Healey's probe related to how manmade greenhouse gas emissions had caused climate change, "a distinctly modern threat that grows more serious with time, and the effects of which are already being felt in Massachusetts."

Healey said she hoped Exxon would now turn over documents it has fought hard against disclosing, showing what it knew about climate change and when it knew it.

"I hope this decision will encourage Exxon to end their scorched earth campaign," she said.

Scott Silvestri, a spokesman for Exxon, said the company was considering its next steps.

Healey and Schneiderman launched their investigations following news reports in 2015 saying Exxon's own scientists determined that fossil fuel combustion must be reduced to mitigate the impact of climate change.

Those reports by InsideClimate News and the Los Angeles Times were based on documents from the 1970s and 1980s. Exxon contended that the documents were not inconsistent with its public positions.

Exxon has called the investigations politically motivated and in a separate lawsuit filed in federal court claimed that Schneiderman and Healey were conspiring to "silence and intimidate one side of the public policy debate."

But U.S. District Judge Valerie Caproni in Manhattan dismissed that case in March, rejecting as "implausible" Exxons' claim Healey and Schneiderman were pursuing bad faith investigations in order to violate its constitutional rights.





(Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by David Gregorio and Bill Trott)You’ve worked hard for decades and now the time has come to enjoy yourself. Regardless of what you do in your retirement, you should always be aware of how much you have left for retirement savings. There isn’t just a danger issue of running out of savings, you can also hurt yourself by not spacing out your spending. This is where a retirement budget really helps.

Why Is a Retirement Budget Important?

Spending money during retirement is a challenge because most retirees have little income outside of their savings. Yes, there are Social Security benefits, but those are not enough to live off (especially if you plan to travel). To ensure that you don’t draw too quickly from your savings, it is useful to create a plan for how you will space out your spending. This plan is your retirement budget.

Some people do not like using the word budget because they feel that the process of budgeting has a negative connotation. It makes people think of depriving themselves of the things they want to do. However, a budget isn’t about depriving yourself. It’s about making sure that you have the necessary funds to spend money on the things you actually want to spend money on.

How Much Will You Spend in Retirement?

When planning your retirement budget, this is a good question to start with. Most people spend significantly less each month after they retire than before they retired. The rule of thumb is that you can expect your expenses to be 70% to 80% of what they were before you retires. So if you spent $1,000 each month before you retired, you could expect to spend about $700 to $800 each month in retirement.

Now, this is just a rule of thumb. Your exact spending will depend on where you live, your lifestyle and how much you have in retirement savings. So while the 70% to 80% figure is useful for getting you started, you should create a more specific plan for your spending.

Retirement Budgets vs. Other Budgets

As you start a budget, you may first want to check out this article on how to make a budget. It will walk you through the steps of creating a general budget. The process for creating a retirement budget will be similar with a few retirement-specific things considerations. For example, your retirement income may come largely from personal savings instead of from an employer.

Making a Retirement Budget: Your Income

Start your retirement budget planning by considering what your retirement income will be. Do have any pensions? How much will you make each money from Social Security benefits? (If you’re unsure, try this Social Security benefits calculator. It will tell you how much you can expect based on your income and when you retire.)

Look at your retirement savings across all your accounts. You may have some money in an employer’s 401(k) and some money in an IRA. If you switched jobs at any point and didn’t roll over 401(k), you may have money saved with a previous employer. Some people have annuities that pay a certain amount each month.

Write down all your sources of income and how much you plan to make each month.

Making a Retirement Budget: Your Expenses

making a retirement budget 2 More

You know how much money you will have each month. The next step is to figure out how much you will spend each month. Look over your bills from the months leading up to retirement in order to see where your money is going.

It’s a good idea to label your expenses as either essential or nonessential. Essentials are the things that you have to spend money on each month. This includes any rent, mortgage payments, loans, household bills and groceries. Nonessentials are the things you don’t need to have in order to get by in life. This would include magazine subscriptions, eating out at restaurants and travel.

Write down all of your essential monthly expenses in one place. Adding up expenses tells you the bare minimum that you need to spend each month. If you ever get into a financial bind, this is the spending number you should fall back on. You cannot cut out these expenses without exposing yourself to some financial or personal risk. Meanwhile, things like TV subscriptions and morning lattes can all be cut when you need to save.

Story ContinuesMonthly dividend stocks are popular with investors – and with good reason. Monthly payments line up better with monthly bills, particularly for retirees living off investment income. Over time, there’s even a modest incremental benefit from compounding, particularly for investors successfully using DRIP plans.

The 7 Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income More

Source: Shutterstock

The catch is that there aren’t all that many monthly payers, which limits the options for investors. Most monthly payers are REITs of some kind – and a good chunk are mortgage REITs, which are facing rising interest rates.

Some ETFs also offer monthly distributions, but may not be suitable for investors who see an edge in stock-picking.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Still, there are attractive stocks with monthly dividends out there. These 7 dividend stocks also offer strong yields paid monthly – and a bull case for capital appreciation as well.





Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Realty Income Corp (O)

It’s tough to make this list without Realty Income Corp (NYSE:O). Indeed, when I reviewed the space last year, O stock led off the list as well.

Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Realty Income Corp (O) More

After all, Realty Income’s slogan is “The Monthly Dividend Company”. And historically it’s been the best performer of the group. Over the past ten years, O’s total return has been 237%. Since its inception in 1994, O shareholders have gained almost 3,000%.

And yet, O looks reasonably cheap, as its performance has stalled out of late. Realty Income stock actually hit a two-year low in early February, before rallying nearly 10% since.

There’s reason to see that rally continuing. O offers an attractive yield just over 5% – a rare figure for the stock this decade. The company closed 2017 with over 5,000 properties and 247 tenants, offering significant diversification which moderates risk. And yet the stock trades at just 16.3x the midpoint of 2018 FFO guidance – which, too, is one of the lowest figures seen this decade.

Indeed, at these levels, O stock simply looks like a buy. The monthly dividend payments are just the cherry on top of the sundae.





Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Permian Basin Royalty Trust (PBT)

Up front, investors need to be aware of the risks in Permian Basin Royalty Trust (NYSE:PBT). Like most royalty trusts, PBT owns depleting assets – in this case acreage in Texas’ Permian Basin. Investors own units, not shares of stock, which can add tax complications.

Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Permian Basin Royalty Trust (PBT) More

Source: Shutterstock

Distributions aren’t fixed, but rather fluctuate month to month. And PBT is highly sensitive to the price of oil and the production in its fields by a subsidiary of ConocoPhillips (NYSE:COP).

All that said, PBT has a lot to offer. The March distribution projects to an annual yield over 9%. Investors bullish on oil prices can use PBT as a direct play, which takes away some of the internal hedges in stocks like COP or Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM). And unlike some trusts which have been yield traps like BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust (NYSE:BPT), production still is growing – as are distributions, for the most part.

Again, this isn’t a stock where investors can simply focus on the 9%+ yield and see value. But given what look like strong reserves and a solid outlook for crude, there should be value in PBT.





Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: EPR Properties (EPR)

EPR Properties (NYSE:EPR) has had a rough go of it of late. Indeed, EPR stock is down 26% over the past year.

Story ContinuesInvestors like dividend stocks that aren't stingy with their payouts. Yet even among the elite ranks of the Dividend Aristocrats -- stocks that have increased their annual payments to shareholders for at least 25 straight years -- you can find some companies with dividend yields that are embarrassingly low. Below, we'll look more closely at Roper Technologies (NYSE: ROP), S&P; Global (NYSE: SPGI), and Sherwin-Williams (NYSE: SHW) to see why they give investors a somewhat mixed picture when it comes to dividends.

Roper comes in with a whimper

Roper Technologies is one of the newest members of the Dividend Aristocrats, with annual increases dating back exactly a quarter-century, to 1993. Yet the amount that it pays in dividends is unusually low, with a current yield of just 0.6% even after a sizable 18% dividend boost earlier this year.

The main justification for the low yield stems from Roper's long-term strategy. The company is a conglomerate of several different types of businesses. Its radio-frequency technology gets used in areas like toll road electronic payment collection systems and remote monitoring, while it also makes diagnostic and lab software solutions, control systems, and a host of other industrial technology products. Roper grows by making frequent acquisitions, and it believes that it can better put its ample cash flow to work by finding new business opportunities instead of returning huge amounts of capital in dividends. That's been a solid long-term strategy for shareholders who value share-price appreciation above income, even if some dividend investors might prefer a bit more attention to the payout side.

S&P Global doesn't hit the benchmark

S&P Global is the company behind well-known stock market benchmarks like the Dow and S&P 500, providing a wealth of information and analysis of the financial markets across the globe. Credit ratings assess bond quality, while the S&P Dow Jones Indices segment tracks key indices both for the stock market and other financial markets. The company also has an impressive database of market data and proprietary research that it offers to clients.

For dividend investors, S&P Global's yield of just over 1% stands out as being barely half what the overall market pays on average. Yet S&P has been aware of the potential disconnect, deciding to increase its quarterly payout by 22% earlier this year. That still leaves the 45-year veteran of annual payout increases with work to do to catch up to its peers on the yield front, but S&P Global is riding the wave of interest in financial markets higher and has delivered strong overall performance to its long-term shareholders.

Dragon and lanterns made entirely out of paint splotches. More

Image source: Sherwin-Williams.

Sherwin-Williams needs more green paint

Finally, Sherwin-Williams is probably the most familiar household name among these three Dividend Aristocrats. The paint specialist runs its own chain of retail stores as well as offering paint and coatings products to third-party home improvement retailers. Dividend investors like the fact that Sherwin-Williams has increased its annual dividend payouts every year for the past 40 years, but they're less than excited by the stock's 0.9% yield.

What's especially troubling is that Sherwin-Williams doesn't seem to see any problem with its dividend strategy, having made just a 1% increase to its quarterly payout in February. Yet investors in the stock don't have a lot of reason to complain, as the paint specialist has taken maximum advantage of favorable conditions in the housing market to generate strong earnings and impressive share-price gains recently. As long as total return remains solid, Sherwin-Williams can justify its behavior even to income investors who would prefer to see more generous payouts.Consumer staples such as household and personal products have relatively stable demand over time – people don’t stop cleaning their houses during an economic downturn! Although this sector may not produce spectacular growth, they do provide a strong reliable stream of constant income which is a great diversifier during economic downturns. As a long term investor, I favour these consumer staples stocks with great dividend payments that continues to add value to my portfolio.

Produce Investments plc (AIM:PIL)

PIL has a juicy dividend yield of 4.82% and pays 24.02% of it’s earnings as dividends , and analysts are expecting a 29.55% payout ratio in the next three years. Besides capital gain prospects, just the yield is higher than the low risk savings rate – enticing for investors with goals of beating their bank accounts. Plus, a 4.82% yield places it amidst the market’s top dividend payers. The company outperformed the gb food industry’s earnings growth of 16.15%, reporting an EPS growth of 215.81% over the past 12 months. More detail on Produce Investments here.

AIM:PIL Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

Wynnstay Group plc (AIM:WYN)

WYN has a sizeable dividend yield of 2.97% and pays out 39.03% of its profit as dividends , with analysts expecting a 41.66% payout in the next three years. Although investors would have seen a few years of reduced payments, it has so far always picked up again, with dividends increasing from UK£0.055 to UK£0.13 over the past 10 years. More on Wynnstay Group here.

AIM:WYN Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

Portmeirion Group plc (AIM:PMP)

PMP has a solid dividend yield of 3.15% and has a payout ratio of 53.27% . The company’s dividends per share have risen from UK£0.15 to UK£0.35 over the last 10 years. They have been consistent too, not missing a payment during this 10 year period. Dig deeper into Portmeirion Group here.

AIM:PMP Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

For more solid dividend paying companies to add to your portfolio, explore this interactive list of top dividend payers.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.Caterpillar (CAT) has seen its stock price sink more than 11% over the last 12 weeks. The construction and mining equipment power's shares have tried to recover recently, but it might take strong first quarter financial results for CAT to get back on track amid the current market volatility.

Caterpillar CAT has seen its stock price sink more than 11% over the last 12 weeks. The construction and mining equipment power’s shares have tried to recover recently, but it might take strong first quarter financial results for CAT to get back on track amid the current market volatility.

Caterpillar posted pretty substantial top and bottom line beats in the fourth quarter. The company’s adjusted earnings of $2.16 per share surpassed our Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.77 per share by 22%. CAT’s Q4 revenues came in at $12.9 billion, well above our $11.9 billion estimate.

Despite these solid fourth quarter results, shares of Caterpillar closed Friday trading at $150.23 per share, far below the $169.37 per share they traded at directly following the release of Caterpillar’s Q4 results in January.

This might signal that Caterpillar’s recent downturn is based more on overall market trends than company specific worries, but many investors can’t afford to take that risk during this recent bearish stretch. Therefore, they should look for stocks that are poised to perform well during first quarter earnings season in order to try to avoid any further turmoil.

With that said, let’s check out Caterpillar’s upcoming first quarter estimates to see what might be in store.

Outlook & Valuation

Our current Zacks Consensus Estimates are calling for Caterpillar’s Q1 revenues to surge by 18.9% to reach $11.68 billion. Maybe more impressively for a company of its size, CAT’s first quarter earnings are projected to skyrocket by 62.5% to hit $2.08 per share.

Meanwhile, Caterpillar has experienced mixed earnings estimate revision activity over the last 30 days, earning two upward revisions against one downward revision.

Investors should note that Caterpillar’s Most Accurate Estimate is $2.12 per share, which is 4 cents above our current consensus estimate. This means that estimates have come in higher as we inch closer to Caterpillar’s Q1 earnings.

CAT is also currently trading with a Forward P/E of 15.81, which marks the slightest of discounts compared to the “Manufacturing - Construction and Mining” industry’s average of 15.85.

Price Performance and Surprise History

Another important factor that investors might want to consider ahead of Caterpillar’s Q1 earnings report is the company’s history of earnings surprises and the effect that these surprises have had on share prices.

Caterpillar Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise

Caterpillar Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | Caterpillar Inc. Quote

Investors can see that Caterpillar has posted a strong earnings surprise history over the last few years, including an average surprise of 51.6% in the trailing four quarters. It is also worth noting that Caterpillar’s stock price has sunk immediately following the release of its quarterly earnings results multiple times, despite these beats.

Bottom Line

With that said, past performance does not necessarily indicate future success or failure, and we will have a better idea of where the construction and mining equipment giant stands closer to its report date, which is scheduled for April 24.

However, investors should remember that Caterpillar is expected to see its top and bottom lines expand significantly in the first quarter, which is impressive for a company of its age and size.

Story ContinuesOne of America’s most beloved home retailers faced a hard day in the market on April 12—Bed Bath and Beyond shares tumbled to a 10-year low, trading down to $17.21.









The fall came after a lukewarm earnings report showed company sales and earnings at expectations, but earnings-per-share forecasts for 2018 below what analysts had predicted (paywall).

It’s yet another sign of the struggles for brick-and-mortar retail. In March, Toys ‘R’ Us filed for bankruptcy, announcing it would close or sell all its US stores. Macy’s has blamed “changing customer behavior”—a nod to the rise of Amazon —for the shuttering of 100 of its stores.

Some analysts, though, are skeptical that Amazon is to blame for Bed Bath & Beyond’s particular troubles. The company faces plenty of competition in retail, from privately owned companies like Crate & Barrel and Home Depot to the even larger Walmart.









And there are weaknesses to Bed Bath and Beyond’s business model. Generous promotions and heavy couponing can keep customers out of stores. Too many customers have come to expect the standard 20%-off coupon, say analysts at Jefferies (paywall).

“Profit is also affected by Bed Bath & Beyond’s discounting and its rather slapdash approach to coupons and vouchers,” Neil Saunders, the managing director of research firm GlobalData Retail tells CNN.

So now another thing that’s 20% discounted is the home retailer’s stock.

Sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief, our free daily newsletter with the world’s most important and interesting news.

More stories from Quartz:



You have to spend money to make money. That's a maxim investors understand well, and it is one reason individual stocks frequently rally even as their profits decline. Spiking short-term costs are acceptable if they're helping build a stronger long-term market position.

Wall Street isn't as forgiving when earnings drop in the context of shrinking sales, or when the profit slump lacks a clear ending point. That's essentially the situation Bed Bath & Beyond (NASDAQ: BBBY) investors find themselves in today.

Inside a shopping mall. More

Image source: Getty Images.

A tough quarter

The retailer recently announced fourth-quarter earnings results that paired reduced revenue with plunging profitability. Sales at existing locations fell in the mid-single-digit range as customer traffic declined. A boost in the e-commerce channel, and slightly higher spending per visitor, only partially offset that slump. As a result, overall comparable-store sales slipped by about 1% for both the quarter and the full fiscal year.

Meanwhile, Bed Bath & Beyond endured painful declines in core profitability metrics. Gross margin dropped to 36% of sales from 38% thanks to price cuts. Higher expenses, including labor, tech spending, and advertising, pushed operating profits down to $337 million, or 9% of sales, from $430 million, or 12% of sales a year ago.

BBBY Operating Margin (TTM) Chart More

BBBY Operating Margin (TTM) data by YCharts.

The good news

It wasn't all bad news in this report. Inventory levels declined sharply, which means the retailer entered the new fiscal year unburdened by aging merchandise it needs to unload through the heavy use of coupons. Instead, CFO Sue Lattmann said in a conference call with analysts that current inventories are "tailored to meet the anticipated demands of our customers and are in good condition."

Conservative capital spending and reduced stock buybacks combined to lift cash balances, too. Cash on hand was $744 million, up from $578 million at the end of fiscal 2016. This healthy financial position means Bed Bath & Beyond has time to work through its growth strategy. It also has the funds to support a deliberate and modest shrinking of its store base. The retailer is planning to close about 40 locations over the next year to keep its footprint at roughly 1,500 locations.James Comey. Robert Mueller. Michael Cohen. Rod Rosenstein. These are names you’re probably hoping not to hear if you’re holding stocks heading into the weekend.

Headline risk is high. There’s China trade tensions and war in the Middle East. Still, the S&P 500 Index is poised to end the week up 2 percent. Things have been a little easier for investors -- but for how long?

Former FBI director Comey is set to make multiple media appearances before the formal release of his book next week. Speculation over the future of Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein has picked up as the Mueller probe continues. Cohen, President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, remains in the spotlight after the FBI raided his office and home.

More from Bloomberg.com: Rise of ‘Gray’ Divorce Forces Financial Reckoning After 50

It raises the question, how do investors position ahead of a weekend that could be full of breaking news?

“I can’t read the president’s mind and can’t predict his actions, but if you believe we are going to get news over the weekend, you would want to de-risk going into that. Because if you do wind up with a situation where Rosenstein or Mueller get fired, that would create more volatility next week,” said Michael O’Rourke, JonesTrading’s chief market strategist. “If you’re a long-term investor, you’re probably not going to sell for those reasons. If you’re trading or a hedge fund, you would want to be more defensive or potentially short.”

Brian Shepardson, first vice president of James Investment Research in Xenia, Ohio, is among the former. His firm manages $4.5 billion and has a more long-term focus. He’s sitting tight, hoping the 200-day moving average holds, as it has over the past few weeks, should news erupt. But he sees why investors might pare equity exposure.

More from Bloomberg.com: The Aramco Accounts: Inside the World’s Most Profitable Company

“What a lot of people do is, if they’re over any type of equity target they may have, maybe sell on a Friday, get to a position that you’re comfortable with from the standpoint that on Saturday and Sunday news can come out without the availability to change a portfolio,” Shepardson said. “That’s probably what we’re seeing a little bit of on the bit of pullback today.”

The S&P 500 declined 0.3 percent Friday. Trading volume in the benchmark was about 17 percent below the 30-day average. The Cboe Volatility Index, known as the VIX, fell to 17.4 after hovering above 20 this week.

More from Bloomberg.com: TPP Nations Welcome Trump's Interest, Don't Want Renegotiation

“The VIX to me is indicating the anxiety level has lessened to some extent -- I don’t see any extra levels of anxiety, so you have to stick with what you want to do and not get jacked out by irrational fears,” said Donald Selkin, New York-based chief market strategist at Newbridge Securities Corp. Still, he added, a hedge could be a good idea on the eve of a weekend of potential “fireworks.”

“I wouldn’t be afraid to do something, but hedge yourself at the same time so you don’t get caught at an out-of-left-field situation with the Russia investigation or something in the Middle East,” he said.

Kevin Walkush, portfolio manager at Oregon-based Jensen Investment Management, is wary of overreacting to current events.

“It appears the market has become much more short-term focused, and it continues to get shorter-term focused,” Walkush said. “For investors who have that kind of time horizon, then maybe that’s going to impact their strategies. But I think for most people, I don’t think it’s something as much to be worried about in the long run.”

Updates with S&P 500 close in second, eighth paragraphs.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read This Weekend Could Be Rough on Your Portfolio on bloomberg.comHow many high-profile firings have occurred at closing time on Friday? With rumors currently swirling inside and outside the Beltway, end-of-week speculation is at an all-time high.

Plenty of Washington watchers believe that Friday is the day that President Trump’s tweeting trigger finger gets itchy, the day he is most likely to wake up and fire someone. With rumors currently swirling inside and outside the Beltway—will Deputy Attorney General Ron Rosenstein get the ax today? Will Trump finally pink slip his nemesis, special counsel Robert Mueller?—end-of-week speculation is at an all-time high. To see if past is, indeed, prologue, we decided to examine just how many heavy hitters have eaten dirt on a Friday.

At first, it seems like a lot: Fridays saw the sacking of the hapless White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and the punching-bag Communications Director Sean Spicer, who not only was the object of Melissa McCarthy’s scathing Saturday Night Live impersonation but is also said to have inhabited the bunny suit for Easter 2017. Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price also bit the dust on a Friday, as did the noxious national security aide Sebastian Gorka and the godfather of soullessness, Steve Bannon (who is still foaming at the mouth—despite his banishment, earlier this week he was allegedly clamoring for the president’s ear to find a way to eviscerate Mueller). And then there were those who voluntarily flew the coop on a Friday: deputy national security adviser Dina Powell; Trump adviser billionaire Carl Icahn; and perhaps most importantly, Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand, who would have been next in line after Rosenstein in terms of firing Mueller.

On the other hand, closer examination reveals that other days of the week are not exactly safe havens for Trump loyalists either. Mondays spelled doom for the now-indicted national security advisor Michael Flynn and Trump’s personal aide John McEntee (supposedly for an unrestrained appetite for Internet gambling). The foul-mouthed former Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci was also kicked out on the first day of the workweek. Tuesdays saw Trump bidding a very un-fond farewell to FBI Director James Comey (whose new book—advance copies just out!—paints quite a lurid portrait of this presidency). And Rex Tillerson, secretary of state, was fired by tweet on a Tuesday.

Resignations include Keith Schiller, the president’s longtime bodyguard (don’t feel too bad, he is still on the RNC payroll); chief economic adviser Gary Cohn; and just this past Tuesday, Homeland Security adviser Tom Bossert, who packed up and hit the road.

Hello, Wednesdays! Say goodbye to a slew of insiders—VA head David Shulkin was sacked on a Wednesday, as was Communications Director for the White House Office of Public Liaison Omarosa Manigault Newman. The notorious spouse-abuser White House aide Rob Porter was also booted out on a Wednesday, the same day of the week that his rumored former paramour, Communications Director Hope Hicks, bid adieu to her Oval Office friends. Only two names to share with you for Thursdays, but they are choice: National security adviser H.R. McMaster got the heave-ho on a Thursday; and the president’s attorney John Dowd waved bye-bye on a Thursday as well.

And here we are back on to Friday! Could this be the very Friday that the president does what he has been clearly dying to do since Mueller took over the Russia investigation? He certainly appears to be in quite a mood this morning, tweeting, among other things, that Comey, Mueller’s predecessor, is a “weak and untruthful slimeball . . .”

Keep your eye on those Google Alerts! Only time and the calendar will tell.Shares of Tesla (TSLA) popped on Friday after CEO Elon Musk once again took to Twitter (TWTR) to boast, this time about the electric car maker's second half outlook. But at this point, it seems somewhat strange that so many investors still react positively to anything Musk says.

Shares of Tesla TSLA popped on Friday after CEO Elon Musk once again took to Twitter TWTR to boast, this time about the electric car maker’s second half outlook. But at this point, it seems somewhat strange that so many investors still react positively to anything Musk says.

In his latest Twitter proclamation, Musk responded to a recent article that simply noted that Tesla will have to raise more money this year.

The Economist used to be boring, but smart with a wicked dry wit. Now it’s just boring (sigh). Tesla will be profitable & cash flow+ in Q3 & Q4, so obv no need to raise money. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) April 13, 2018

Tesla’s CEO pushed back on The Economist’s article saying that his company does not need to raise any money this year. Musk also wrote that Tesla would be profitable in the second half of this year.

With no other major Tesla-related news to speak of, and markets relatively flat, Tesla’s stock price likely climbed over 2% based mostly on this tweet. It is understandable that Musk wants to defend his company, but investors should consider taking a look at some of Tesla’s current fundamentals and projections in favor of giving too much credence to Musk’s tweets—with his track record of overpromising.

Model 3

Tesla’s mass-market Model 3 production setbacks have been well known for some time. And production issues make sense for a company that is trying to revolutionize the automobile industry. But a $50 billion company and its CEO should perhaps be more adept at forecasting these issues, and therefore providing more realistic guidance.

A recent CBS News interview helped illuminate Tesla’s Model 3 production woes and Musk’s inability to provide investors with accurate Model 3 guidance. One exchange with CBS’ Gayle King, while on tour of a Tesla factory, was particularly important.

“You started saying, 'We'll do 5,000 a week.' Then, okay, that didn't work out, 'We'll do 2,500 a week.' And now it's a little over 2,000 a week. Does that trouble you?" King asked. To which Musk replied, “Yeah. No, that's true….I need to figure out how to be better….And then we can be better at meeting goals."

Analysts at Jefferies believe that Tesla most likely fell short of its own first quarter Model 3 production goals. It also seems that investors have become more concerned that Tesla hasn’t lived up to its own expectations, with its stock price down roughly 4% over the last year.

However, none of this means that Musk’s latest tweet is untrue. So let’s take a look to see if our current estimates support the CEO’s claims of second half profitability.

Looking Ahead

Tesla’s first quarter 2018 revenues are projected to climb by 20.5% to hit $3.25 billion, based on our current Zacks Consensus Estimates. Tesla’s full-year 2018 sales are expected to soar nearly 60% to hit $18.77 billion.

Meanwhile, Tesla is projected to post an adjusted loss of $3.15 per share in Q1 and a full-year adjusted loss of $7.05 per share. Clearly, our current 2018 consensus estimates don’t match Musk’s tweet.

With that said, investors should note that Tesla is expected to report adjusted full-year earnings of $1.63 per share in 2019. So maybe Musk is just a year off.

But with more established automakers like Ford F, General Motors GM, and Volkswagen VLKAY ready to begin mass-market electric vehicle production, Musk’s words need to turn into actions sooner than later.

Will You Make a Fortune on the Shift to Electric Cars?

Here's another stock idea to consider. Much like petroleum 150 years ago, lithium power may soon shake the world, creating millionaires and reshaping geo-politics. Soon electric vehicles (EVs) may be cheaper than gas guzzlers. Some are already reaching 265 miles on a single charge.



With battery prices plummeting and charging stations set to multiply, one company stands out as the #1 stock to buy according to Zacks research.



It's not the one you think.



See This Ticker Free >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Ford Motor Company (F) : Free Stock Analysis Report



General Motors Company (GM) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Tesla, Inc. (TSLA) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Volkswagen AG (VLKAY) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchThe strong post-election bull run in Bank of America Corp (NYSE:BAC) stock has hit some turbulence. BAC stock has pulled back almost 8% from March highs, even with a recent bounce. And since early February, BAC stock has seen increased volatility and choppy trading.

For the most part, the recent trading looks like short-term noise. I argued a month ago that the long-term case for BAC stock remained intact. That’s still the case heading into Bank of America’s first-quarter report on Monday.

Bank of America Corp (BAC) Stock Looks Like a Buy Ahead of Earnings More

Source: Shutterstock

Rather, the pullback toward $30 looks like it’s giving investors another opportunity to get into BAC at an attractive price. And, with earnings season likely to remind investors of the bull case here, I expect Monday’s report to be an upside catalyst for Bank of America stock.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

A Choppy Market

Big bank stocks like BAC tend to track the market as a whole, so the volatility of the past few weeks makes some sense. Broad markets have been choppy and more volatile; Bank of America stock has been the same.

But, the fears driving recent volatility are mostly forward-looking — and external. Whether it’s concerns about a trade war or higher Treasury yields, investors, for the most, part aren’t worried about specific stocks. They’re worried about the market as a whole.

The good news is that earnings season is on the way — and it starts with the big banks. Citigroup Inc (NYSE:C), Wells Fargo & Co (NYSE:WFC) and JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) all report on Friday. BofA follows on Monday, and those earnings should contain quite a bit of good news for the sector as a whole and for Bank of America in particular.





Why Earnings Should Help BAC Stock

After all, unemployment is exceedingly low, and wages are creeping up. Both of those factors should keep default rates low. Interest rates are finally rising. While that has rattled the markets a bit, it’s undoubtedly good news for bank stocks, which will benefit from higher net interest margins. Tax reform will help earnings in 2018, which could lead to more economic activity and more revenue.

For Bank of America, the news should be particularly good. Volatility in the markets actually could be a good thing for trading revenue in the Merrill Lynch unit, although the benefits might not be seen until Q2. BofA’s credit metrics already were in good shape, which give it room to increase lending going forward. Tax reform means EPS should be very strong in the quarter: analysts are looking for 44% growth in the quarter, and 36% for the year.

The good news surrounding Bank of America stock largely has been forgotten over the past couple of months. But, I expect Monday’s report will change that and send BAC stock higher.

Bank of America Stock Looks Strong Long-Term, Too

The good news for Bank of America stock is that the bull case here isn’t just short-term. Back near $30, BAC trades at less than 11x 2019 consensus EPS. That’s a multiple that suggests either growth will decelerate sharply and quickly, and/or the economy is going to turn south.

I don’t believe either will be the case. And, with Bank of America likely to ramp up its dividend again later this year, a cheap valuation, and a diversified asset base, I think it’s the best play in the sector. JPM has a strong case, as I wrote last month, and even Goldman Sachs Group Inc (NYSE:GS) looks attractive as well.

But, Bank of America has plenty of room for improvement at Merrill Lynch, in both trading revenue and on the fixed-income side. The credit card business has room for improvement as well. There’s organic growth potential in addition to the coming tailwinds from higher interest rates and a strong economy.

There’s simply a lot to like here. At less than 11x forward EPS, that includes the price, too. A solid earnings report from Bank of America will re-establish the bull case and, in the least, should send the stock past its recent highs over the next few months.

As of this writing, Vince Martin did not hold a positions in any of the aforementioned securities.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Bank of America Corp (BAC) Stock Looks Like a Buy Ahead of Earnings appeared first on InvestorPlace.Key bank earnings that are scheduled for release this week and next will likely to provide a better understanding of the sector’s near-term prospects. At present, the central short-term concern for banks will be one-time U.S. tax charges, which may affect their full-year profits. However, a lower U.S. corporate tax rate is expected to favor profitability in the long run.

Encouraging economic environment, a low tax rate and high Fed rate hike prospects have clearly shifted attention to the bank stocks, which will kick-start the first-quarter earnings season. In this context, Bank of America Corporation BAC and U.S. Bancorp USB which are scheduled to report on Apr 16 and Apr 18, respectively, assume greater significance. Both banks carry a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

Other major stocks reporting earnings from Apr 16 to Apr 20 include The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. GS and UnitedHealth Group Incorporated UNH.

Price Performance

Bank of America has gained 37.2% in the last one year and outperformed the broader industry that has moved up 22.3% over the same period. In comparison, U.S. Bancorp has not only underperformed the broader industry but also Bank of America, gaining only 2.5% over the same time frame.

Valuation

Compared with the S&P 500, the industry is clearly undervalued. This implies that the industry has upside potential for the near future. The industry has an average trailing 12-month P/B ratio – which is the best multiple for valuing banks because of large variations in their earnings results from one quarter to the next – of 1.77, which is below the S&P 500’s average of 3.75. Hence, it might be a good idea to focus on stocks belonging to this particular industry.

Coming to the two stocks under consideration, with a P/B ratio of 1.91 U.S. Bancorp is undervalued than the S&P 500 but overvalued than the industry. However, Bank of America with a P/B ratio of 1.28 is less pricey compared to both the S&P 500 and the industry.

Story ContinuesWith JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Citigroup (C) reporting better-than-expected earnings results this morning, fellow commercial and investment banking giant Bank of America (BAC) will hope to continue the positive trend with its own earnings announcement on Monday.

With JPMorgan Chase JPM and Citigroup C reporting better-than-expected earnings results this morning, fellow commercial and investment banking giant Bank of America BAC will hope to continue the positive trend with its own earnings announcement on Monday. Earnings season is just heating up, and these financial bellwethers should give investors a great read on the economy.

The big story for both JPMorgan and Citi was increased revenue from equity trading, with the firms reporting revenue growth of 26% and 38%, respectively, in this segment. Overall, JPM notched total revenue growth of 12% and earnings growth of 44%, while Citi’s total revenue and earnings improved 3% and 24.4%, respectively.

So what should Bank of America investors expect? Let’s take a closer look!

Latest Outlook and Valuation

Based on our latest Zacks Consensus Estimates, we expect Bank of America to post earnings of $0.59 per share and total revenue of $22.91 billion. These results would represent year-over-year growth of 43.9% and 3.0%, respectively.

Heading into its report date, BAC is trading with a Forward P/E of 11.9, which is basically in line with the industry’s average of 12.0. Within the past year, the stock has traded as high as 16.8x forward 12-month earnings and as low as 11.3x. Its median earnings multiple over that time is 12.5. Investors might conclude that BAC shares are currently cheap compared to their valuation recently.

Earnings ESP Whispers

Investors will also want to anticipate the likelihood that Bank of America surprises investors with better-than-anticipated earnings results. For this, we turn to our Earnings ESP figure.

Zacks Earnings ESP (Expected Surprise Prediction) looks to find earnings surprises by focusing on the most recent analyst estimates. This is done because, generally speaking, when an analyst posts an estimate right before an earnings release, it means that they have fresh information which could potentially be more accurate than what analysts thought about a company two or three months ago.

A positive Earnings ESP paired with a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better ranking helps us feel confident about the potential for an earnings beat. In fact, our 10-year backtest has revealed that this methodology has accurately produced a positive surprise 70% of the time.

Bank of America is currently holding a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) and an Earnings ESP of -0.4%. This is because the company’s Most Accurate Estimate for earnings sits at $0.58, meaning that the most recent analyst estimates have been lower than the consensus. In other words, our model is not conclusively calling for a beat.

Surprise History

Another important thing to consider ahead of Bank of America’s report is the company’s history of earnings surprises and the effect that these surprises have had on share prices. The company has met or surpassed earnings estimates in each of the trailing seven quarters, and the stock has responded well to these positive surprises.

We judge the price effect of these earnings beats by comparing the closing price of the stock two days before the report and two days after the report. Over the course of BAC’s recent streak, the stock has turned positive during this window six times.

Want more market analysis from this author? Make sure to follow @Ryan_McQueeney on Twitter!A teenager died in a Honda Odyssey due to a feature the company has used in its vehicles for decadesIt’s tax time! Your taxes are due April 17, 2018, but if you’re a procrastinator — don’t worry! Fourteen million tax returns were filed after the deadline last year, and most of them filed the necessary extension paperwork. (Make sure you’re not one of the two million who were late and didn’t file for an extension!)

You can extend your deadline to file your return until October 15, 2018. But remember, you can’t extend your deadline to pay; any taxes you owe are still due in April. If you miss the deadline and you owe, you’ll get hit with a late fee and interest. And IRS interest isn’t like credit card interest; it accrues daily, not monthly.

When you file for an extension, you’ll have to estimate what you’ll owe in taxes. Get as far on your return as you can in order to make the best estimate. Then pay it here, and select “extension” from the drop-down menu.

If you know you’re not going to meet the deadline, file for an extension. Some states may require you to file a separate extension there too, so make sure you check your state’s rules.

Watch more

Yahoo Finance Live Tax Q&A

Your tax questions answered – Part 2FILE PHOTO - A man holds an iPhone as he visits Sina's Weibo microblogging site in Shanghai May 29, 2012. REUTERS/Carlos Barria

SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's Sina Weibo will remove gay and violent content, including pictures, cartoons and text posts, during a three-month clean-up campaign, the microblogging platform said.

Friday's announcement comes amid a clampdown targeting content across social media platforms as China's leaders look to tighten their grip on a huge and diverse cultural scene popular with the young.

Weibo announced the move on its official administrator's account, saying the action aimed to comply with China's new cyber security law that calls for strict data surveillance.

The post drew more than 24,000 comments, was forwarded more than 110,000 times, and prompted users to protest against the decision, using the hashtag "I am gay".

"I am gay and I'm proud, even if I get taken down there are tens of millions like me!," said one poster, who used the handle "rou wan xiong xiong xiong xiong" and posted a photo of himself.

Some posts were quickly blocked by the platform, with the message displayed that they contained "illegal content".

This week, news and online content portal Toutiao, which is luring investors, was forced to pull a joke sharing app after a watchdog denounced its "vulgar and improper content".

Award-winning gay romance "Call Me By Your Name" was also dropped from a Chinese film festival last month. Homosexuality is not illegal in China, but activists say the conservative attitudes of some parts of society have prompted occasional government clampdowns.

Weibo has so far cleared 56,243 pieces of content, shut 108 user accounts and removed 62 topics considered to have violated its standards, it added.





(Reporting by Brenda Goh; Editing by Clarence Fernandez)The U.S. and Russia are threatening to fight in Syria, and these are their top weaponsFILE PHOTO: A view of one of two Rolls Royce Trent 1000 engines of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner during a media tour of the aircraft ahead of the Singapore Airshow in Singapore February 12, 2012. REUTERS/Edgar Su/File Photo

By Kate Holton

LONDON (Reuters) - Rolls-Royce <RR.L> requires more money and more inspections to fix problems with Trent 1000 engines on Boeing <BA.N> 787 Dreamliner planes, leading to further disruption for airlines and testing relations between Rolls and its customers.

Problems with engine turbine blades wearing out sooner than expected have hampered a restructuring program prompted by the engineering company's declining older engine program and plunging demand for oil equipment.

It said on Friday that more regular inspections are required and would lead "to higher than previously guided cash costs being incurred during 2018".

"We sincerely regret the disruption this will cause to our customers," CEO Warren East said in a statement.

Airlines have already been forced to alter schedules or lease other aircraft, but the latest issues could be more far-reaching.

The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) plans to reduce the amount of time the affected planes can fly on a single engine after a failure of the other. The time limit would drop as low as 140 minutes, compared with the current window of 330 minutes, a source familiar with the plans said.

This effectively curtails operations across oceans or remote areas.

The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) will also order increased inspections of affected engines in line with actions outlined by Rolls-Royce. Currently inspections must be carried out after every 200 flight cycles.

The two advisories are due to be issued on Friday, the source said.

Rolls said it would reprioritize spending to mitigate the costs and kept its 2018 free cash flow guidance unchanged at about 450 million pounds ($643 million), give or take 100 million pounds.

Shares in Rolls, one of the biggest names in British manufacturing, were down 1.3 percent by 1251 GMT.

It announced the need for stepped up inspections after liaising with authorities over a separate issue with the compressor on Trent 1000 Package C series engines. Rolls said there were 380 such engines in service.

Boeing said that about 25 percent of the Dreamliners flying were powered by the engine and it was deploying support teams to help to manage service disruptions.

General Electric <GE.N> engines used on some Boeing 787 Dreamliners are not affected.





ENGINE SHORTAGES

The need to inspect and repair Trent 1000 engines has led to an industry-wide shortage.

CEO East said Rolls was working with Boeing and airlines to minimize the disruption.

"Our team of technical experts and service engineers is working around the clock to ensure we return them to full service as soon as possible," he said.

Norwegian Air, which has the engines in 15 of its 27 Boeing 787s, said it hopes to have inspected all of its engines before May 26 and that it had already found one problem that required an engine to be replaced.

"It's disappointing and frustrating that our new aircraft don't work the way they are supposed to," spokesman Lasse Sandaker-Nilsen said, adding that it had canceled a flight from Paris to New York next week as a result.

"We have an ongoing dialogue with both Boeing and Rolls-Royce and we have been told this problem has their full attention."

Virgin Atlantic [VA.UL] has up to four 787s grounded at any one time while it sources replacement engines with Rolls and has also leased three Airbus A330-200s to help to cover its flying program.

A Virgin spokeswoman said it had been aware of the increased inspections announced on Friday and that the cover it had in place would be sufficient.

British Airways <ICAG.L>, Japan's ANA <9202.T>, Air New Zealand <AIR.NZ> and Thai Airways, which also use Trent 1000 engines, were not available for immediate comment.

Scoot, a budget carrier owned by Singapore Airlines <SIAL.SI>, said it expected some impact on operations.

In December the EASA ordered airlines to replace some Trent 1000 engines.

In March, Rolls said the cash hit from the problem should peak at 340 million pounds in 2018 before falling in 2019.





(Additional reporting by Tim Hepher, Joachim Dagenborg, Victoria Bryan, and Jamie Freed; Editing by David Goodman and Jason Neely)Advanced Micro Devices on Friday unveiled the second generation update to its groundbreaking Ryzen chips for personal computers, but unlike last year’s initial debut, the reception so far has been muted at best.

The new chips, available for pre-order immediately and arriving on Apr. 19, are faster and cheaper than last year’s models. But AMD didn’t disclose any new hardware features, performance tests, or comparison benchmarks to chips from archrival Intel, which just released a host of new, faster processors of its own. Shares of AMD, which have been volatile in 2018, lost almost 2% to $9.92 in midday trading on Friday. The shares are down 19% over the past year.

The slump reflects AMD’s difficult challenge competing with Intel in the CPU market and Nvidia in the graphics chip market. Despite AMD CEO Lisa Su’s strategy to abandon older designs and develop all new, groundbreaking chips with Ryzen for PCs, the Epyc chip for servers, and the Vega line for graphics, the company is still having difficulty catching its much larger peers. Intel blunted some of AMD’s momentum by adding an “i9” high-performance chip to its line up that had topped out with the “i7.” And Nvidia is still dominating selling graphics chips into the booming market in cloud data centers that run machine learning and artificial intelligence tasks. Investors also have concerns about possibly volatile sales related to digital currency mining and a deal Su struck with Intel for combined CPU and graphics chips. The defection of AMD’s lead graphic designer, Raja Kudori, to Intel in November probably didn’t help assuage investors, either.

Get Data Sheet, Fortune’s technology newsletter.

On the surface, AMD had a strong year in 2017. Sales rose 25% to $5.3 billion and Su managed to turn a 60 cents per share loss in 2016 into a modest 4 cents-a-share profit. But AMD gained only a few percentage points of market share against Intel intc and investors had been hoping to see profit margins and earnings per share improve more quickly, too.

It was a little over a year ago that AMD’s long-depressed stock price rose above $12 a share for the first time since 2007. The huge gain—the stock had been as low as $1.83 in 2016—reflected investor enthusiasm for Su’s strategy. But after peaking at almost $16 per share last July, investors have largely been disappointed in AMD’s results and concerned about the cryptocurrency factor.

Analysts haven’t been able to figure out exactly how much of AMD’s sales strength last year was due to the rise of digital currency mining. Groups that “mine” ethereum and several other major cryptocurrencies by crunching transaction records for new coin rewards have relied on graphics chips from AMD and Nvidia nvda . As the price of the currencies rose last year, the groups had incentives to devote ever greater computing resources to their mining efforts. But lately, digital currency prices have crashed to earth and graphics chip sales could suffer.

The new AMD chips announced on Friday go on sale Apr. 19. The top of the line Ryzen 2700X, which will sell for $329, has 8 processing cores and runs at a top speed of 4.3 GHz. That compares to last year’s similar Ryzen 1800X which also had 8 cores, a top speed of 4 GHz, but sold for $500 when it debuted.

AMD amd said it would release more details, including performance comparisons, on Apr. 19. The new chips are manufactured at a scale of 12 nanometers, down from 14 nm for last year’s Ryzen line, which should make them more energy efficient and higher performing.Jim Cramer says that when President Trump takes a Twitter break, Amazon is the stock you want to have.Microsoft





At a conference this week, Microsoft Research scientist and leader Eric Horvitz says that the company has given up "significant sales" because it was worried the customer would use AI for not-good purposes.

Microsoft clarifies with Business Insider that the company has never cut off an existing contract over these concerns, but has turned customers away.

Horvitz says that Microsoft has also placed contractual limits on what customers can do with AI, for ethical reasons.



Long-time Microsoft scientist Eric Horvitz says that the software company takes AI ethics so seriously, “significant sales have been cut off" because it was concerned that the potential customer would use its technology for no good.

Horvitz, a director and technical fellow with Microsoft Research, made his remarks on stage at Carnegie Mellon University's K&L Gates Conference on Ethics and AI on Monday, as originally reported by GeekWire.

I got in touch with Microsoft for more clarity on Horvitz's remarks. The company confirmed that Microsoft had never cut off a deal with an existing customer — Horvitz was referring to the loss of possible revenue from potential customers.

“Microsoft may decide to forego the pursuit of business proposals for numerous reasons, including the company’s commitment to upholding human rights," a spokesperson tells Business Insider.

Beyond just cutting off those deals, Horvitz says that Microsoft has placed limitations on what customers can do with its AI tech: “And in other sales, various specific limitations were written down in terms of usage, including ‘may not use data-driven pattern recognition for use in face recognition or predictions of this type,'" he said, per GeekWire.

That's an unusual point for Horvitz to make: Microsoft itself offers cloud-based services for developers to easily put facial recognition capabilities into their software. Still, Horvitz's remarks indicate that Microsoft is willing to place limits on what customers can and can't do with artificial intelligence. Microsoft declined to comment any further on that point.

"This committee has teeth"

In a more general sense, Horvitz was discussing Aether, an acronym for "AI and ethics in engineering and research," which is Microsoft's overall AI ethical oversight committee. “It’s been an intensive effort … and I’m happy to say that this committee has teeth,” Horvitz said.

“We believe it is very important to develop and deploy AI in a responsible, trusted and ethical manner. Microsoft created the Aether committee to identify, study and recommend policies, procedures, and best practices on questions, challenges, and opportunities coming to the fore on influences of AI on people and society," says a Microsoft spokesperson.

This approach is generally in line with Microsoft's public profile: The company's leadership has made much of the idea of ethical artificial intelligence, urging researchers, developers, and consumers to be responsible in how they use the technology.

"[We] want people to go forward in ways that are well informed, that are thoughtful, and in a sense, a commitment to shared responsibility. It is going to take a broad commitment to shared responsibility in order to ensure that AI is used well," Microsoft President Brad Smith told Business Insider earlier this year.

At the same time, the ethical use of AI is a hot topic in Silicon Valley: Earlier in April, Google employees petitioned the company's leadership to stop providing artificial intelligence to the military for use in drones.

NOW WATCH: Humanity could be waste-free if we lived in a Circular Economy — here's how it would work

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Thousands of Google employees asked CEO Sundar Pichai to stop providing AI tech for the US military's dronesScott A. Miller/Getty





Citron Research has placed a $230,000 charity bet on its Nvidia position after some light prodding from CNBC host Jim Cramer.

The noted short-seller has a $230 price target for Nvidia, which was the top performing S&P 500 stock in 2017.

Follow Nvidia's stock price in real-time here.

Nvidia might have been the best performing S&P 500 stock in 2017, but the bears see it's rise as a potential money maker for short-selling.

After CNBC host Jim Cramer prodded Citron Research for Nvidia surging past the firm's $170 price target it set in June 2017, the firm fired back, saying it would donate $230,000 to the Humane Society if the stock is still above $230 in a year.

Citron cramer Nvidia tweet More

Twitter

It's unclear if Cramer has accepted the bet, or what's at stake for the Mad Money host if Nvidia's share price drops as much as Citron predicts. One thing is for certain, Cramer sticks up for his dog, aptly named for the chipmaker.

Jim Cramer dog tweet More

Twitter

It's not an unusual move for Citron. The company, headed by Andrew Left, regularly publishes bearish reports on companies it thinks are overvalued.

Most recently, the firm singled out upstart furniture company Wayfair. Before that, it was Twitter.

Nvidia was the best performing S&P 500 stock in 2017, up 79%, and Wall Street analysts surveyed by Bloomberg remain optimistic, with an average price target of $251, 7% above where shares were trading Friday afternoon.

Nvidia stock price More

Markets Insider

NOW WATCH: Wall Street's biggest bull explains why trade war fears are way overblown

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Nvidia surges after multiple Wall Street upgradesNow is a good time to look at dividend stocks to buy and hold. While there’s no doubt that the market averages were on a roll going in 2018, that incredible momentum slowed a bit when January changed to February. The tax cuts in late December added a lot of fuel to stocks’ fire, but a market correction was lurking around the corner.

If the economy expands and the global economy stays in recovery mode, this could see stock indexes soar once again. Especially when you look to the big blue chips that dominate the averages.

The big firms are doing business outside the U.S., and the dollar is weakening as interest rates rise. As Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin observed in Davos recently, a weaker dollar is good for exports and the Trump administration is in favor of boosting exports.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

But for all this good news, a changing market — with the potential for an inverted yield curve in interest rates, rising inflation and less consumer strength than anticipated — may bring on a correction.

That’s why now is a good time to buy some solid insurance while it’s cheap. That’s why I’ve come up with nine impressive dividend stocks to buy and hold. They have longevity and will weather any near-term storms.

[Editor’s Note: This article was originally published Feb. 2, 2018, but has been edited to reflect changes in the markets.]





Impressive Dividend Stocks to Buy and Hold: Verizon (VZ)

vz stock More

Source: Mike Mozart Via Flickr

Dividend: 59 cents, paid quarterly

Verizon Communications Inc (NYSE:VZ) is a blue-chip communications pick with a solid 4.9% dividend.

Whether it’s fiber optic cable, mobile communications or content delivered directly to its customers, Verizon is focused on maintaining its dominant position in the market. Recent deals on the content side show that VZ is very aware that how your subscribers get content is less valuable than what content they get.

There will certainly be competition in the space, which could mean customers come and go, but VZ has shored both its ‘cable’ end and its wireless side, so any cable cutters will still find value in sticking with VZ.

And the dividend is rock solid.





Impressive Dividend Stocks to Buy and Hold: AES Corp (AES)

Source: Shutterstock

Dividend: 13 cents quarterly

AES Corp (NYSE:AES) was a major player in the utility deregulation boom that swept through the markets in the 1990s. Think Enron, as both the bullish story and the cautionary tale.

AES has operations in the U.S., South America, Central America and the Caribbean. But it is one of those independent energy producers that doesn’t get a lot of press because it doesn’t fit into a tidy box.

AES remains a solid company, however, and delivers a 4.5% dividend. What’s more, emerging markets are starting a boom phase after their bottom. And with Brazil making a comeback — and AES having operations there — things are looking up for this stock on the growth side of equation.





Impressive Dividend Stocks to Buy and Hold: Public Storage (PSA)

Source: Mike Mozart Via Flickr

Dividend: $2.00, quarterlyThe stock market has been volatile over the past few months, partly thanks to President Donald Trump's proposals for new tariffs aimed at China and other trading partners. However, patient investors can ride out the storm with three of my favorite dividend stocks -- AT&T; (NYSE: T), Johnson & Johnson (NYSE: JNJ), and Las Vegas Sands (NYSE: LVS).

A classic dividend play

AT&T has raised its dividend annually for over three decades, making it a Dividend Aristocrat. AT&T currently pays a forward dividend yield of 5.6%, which is nearly triple the S&P 500's average yield of 2%. It spent just 68% of its free cash flow on dividends over the past 12 months, meaning it has enough money to cover the dividend, making a dividend decrease unlikely.

Paper money rains down on a smiling woman. More

Image source: Getty Images.

AT&T is America's second-largest wireless carrier, top wireline services provider, and biggest pay TV provider. If its planned takeover of Time Warner (NYSE: TWX) is approved, it will also become one of the biggest media companies in the world.

That massive ecosystem gives Ma Bell plenty of bundling options -- selling people more than one service -- which widens its edge over competitors like Verizon and T-Mobile. AT&T's stock is currently weighed down by near-term headwinds -- including slowing smartphone upgrades in the U.S., losses of video subscribers, high debt levels, antitrust concerns about the Time Warner buyout, and higher interest rates knocking down interest in dividend stocks.

But over the long term, AT&T has repeatedly bounced back from micro and macro challenges while generating steady income for patient investors. The stock is fairly insulated from the trade clashes between the U.S. and China, and its downside potential should be limited by its high yield and its low forward https://www.fool.com/investing/general/2015/01/17/how-to-use-the-pe-ratio.aspxP/E of 10.

A healthcare stock for all seasons

Johnson & Johnson's three core businesses -- pharmaceutical products, consumer healthcare, and medical devices -- are so well-diversified that it's tough for any headwind to knock the 132-year-old company off course. J&J's growth might look glacial on a quarterly basis, but it's generated slow and steady growth over the years.

Between 2007 and 2017, its annual revenue rose 25% and its adjusted earnings per share jumped 76%. Its stock nearly doubled over the past decade. The company pays a forward dividend yield of 2.6%, and it's raised its payout annually for over five decades -- which makes it another dependable Dividend Aristocrat. Those hikes, which used up just 50% of J&J's free cash flow over the past 12 months, should continue for the foreseeable future.

Trade tensions, a soft dollar, and generic competition for former blockbuster drugs like Remicade are all near-term headwinds for J&J, but analysts still expect its revenue and earnings to rise 6% and 11%, respectively, this year. Those are solid growth figures for an all-weather stock that trades at just 16 times forward earnings.

Let the house pay you

Las Vegas Sands is the biggest casino operator in the world. It owns the Venetian and Palazzo in Las Vegas, the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, and five major properties in Macau. Sands generates most of its profits from Asia.One of the best paying dividend stock on our list is Portland General Electric. Dividend stocks are a great way to hedge your portfolio as they provide both steady income and cushion against market risks Dividends play a key role in compounding returns over time and can form a large part of our portfolio return. I’ve made a list of other value-adding dividend-paying stocks for you to consider for your investment portfolio.

Portland General Electric Company (NYSE:POR)

Portland General Electric Company, an integrated electric utility company, engages in the generation, wholesale purchase, transmission, distribution, and retail sale of electricity in the state of Oregon. Established in 1930, and now run by Maria Pope, the company provides employment to 2,906 people and with the stock’s market cap sitting at USD $3.51B, it comes under the mid-cap stocks category.

POR has a nice dividend yield of 3.38% and the company currently pays out 63.82% of its profits as dividends . In the last 10 years, shareholders would have been happy to see the company increase its dividend from US$0.94 to US$1.36. They have been reliable as well, ensuring that shareholders haven’t missed a payment during this 10 year period. Continue research on Portland General Electric here.

NYSE:POR Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

Navient Corporation (NASDAQ:NAVI)

Navient Corporation provides asset management and business processing services to education, health care, and government clients at the federal, state, and local levels in the United States. Formed in 1973, and run by CEO John Remondi, the company currently employs 6,700 people and with the company’s market cap sitting at USD $3.52B, it falls under the mid-cap group.

NAVI has a sumptuous dividend yield of 4.82% and pays 60.27% of it’s earnings as dividends . Although investors would have seen a few years of reduced payments, it has so far always picked up again, with dividends increasing from US$0 to US$0.64 over the past 10 years. Analyst estimates for Navient’s future earnings are certainly promising, predicting a triple digit earnings growth over the next three years. Continue research on Navient here.

NasdaqGS:NAVI Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

United Bankshares, Inc., a financial holding company, primarily provides commercial and retail banking products and services in the United States. Started in 1982, and now run by Richard Adams, the company employs 2,381 people and with the market cap of USD $3.69B, it falls under the mid-cap stocks category.

Story ContinuesMicrosoft has given up 'significant sales' over concerns that the customer will use AI for evil, says a top scientist (MSFT)Zillow Group Inc (NASDAQ:AG) is expanding its home retail options to buying and flipping homes.

Zillow to Buy and Flip Homes in Phoenix and Las Vegas More

This change will have the company buying homes in the Phoenix and Las Vegas areas from sellers. These sellers are given an Instant Offer for their property. Once the person chooses to sell the property, Zillow will repair and update it before listing it on the market again.

Zillow says that the advantage of this offering is that it gives sellers more certainty about the deal. This includes not having to worry about a fluctuating price, or when the sale will take place. However, they may have to take a hit to the original price they were hoping to sell the home for to a buyer in the real estate market.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Zillow will have special real estate agents that will handle buying and selling the homes in these markets. The agents will earn commission from the sell prices of the homes. They will also provide sellers with an Instant Offer for their home two days after completing an analysis of the location.

This isn’t actually the first time that Zillow has taken part in buying and flipping homes. It first tested out the Instant Offer program back in May 2017. During this time, the special service was only available for home sellers in Las Vegas and Orlando. It says that these tests will expand to include Phoenix this month.

ZG stock was down 8% as of Friday afternoon.

More From InvestorPlace

As of this writing, William White did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.

Compare Brokers

The post Zillow to Buy and Flip Homes in Phoenix and Las Vegas appeared first on InvestorPlace.Shares of GE were spiking higher Friday afternoon, and according to some traders, there could be a bigger breakout on its earnings next week.GE’s 2017 Loss Widens as Results Restated After Rule Change More

General Electric Co. trimmed last year’s earnings by $1.56 billion to align its results with new U.S. accounting rules for sales of industrial equipment.FILE PHOTO: The General Electric logo is pictured on the General Electric offshore wind turbine plant in Montoir-de-Bretagne, near Saint-Nazaire, western France, November 21, 2016. REUTERS/Stephane Mahe/File Photo

By Alwyn Scott

NEW YORK (Reuters) - General Electric Co <GE.N> said on Friday it took a $4.24 billion equity charge and reduced earnings for the last two years by 30 cents a share, figures in line with expectations the company set earlier this year when it said it would comply with new accounting standards.

The maker of power plants, jet engines, medical devices and other industrial goods had estimated the after-tax, non-cash impact would be about $4.2 billion, plus reduced earnings for 2016 and 2017 of about 29 cents a share.

The accounting change prompted GE to recast two years of past financial statements to reflect lower income and asset values under the new standard, and those will be reflected when GE reports first-quarter results on April 20.

The value of GE's contract assets are being written down, but that does not change the value of the long-term contracts GE has, nor does it affect GE's cash flow or earnings estimates for 2018, GE said.

The adjustments appear within expectations, Edward Jones analyst Jeff Windau said. "Now the focus moves to next Friday's earnings."

The figures suggest GE executives have gotten to the bottom of some accounting issues and bolster confidence in Chief Executive Officer John Flannery after a series of financial surprises, including underestimating the impact of insurance policies that prompted a $6.2 billion charge in the fourth quarter, analysts said.

GE shares were down 1 percent at $13.35 in aftermarket trading after rising 2.4 percent on Friday.

The new accounting standard governs how companies estimate and recognise revenue from long-term contracts, and is designed to make a company's cash flow more closely match its income, accounting experts and analysts said.

The prior standard allowed companies to recognise future revenue from such agreements more quickly. The new standard shifts revenue to later in the contract duration, analysts said.

Companies typically use the cost of providing services as a basis for estimating future revenue from the contracts, but the process can lead to over- or under-estimating the value of the contracts as assets on the balance sheet, experts say.

GE's contract asset tally has soared 70 percent to $28.8 billion in 2017, from $16.9 billion in 2014, most of it in its power and aviation units. The majority of the total reflects revenue GE has already booked but for which it has not billed customers, which creates the gap between profit and cash flow, according to GE's regulatory filings.

GE also made adjustments for new accounting standards for pensions, cash flow and taxes on Friday.

GE's accounting is under scrutiny after earnings swung to a loss last year and GE said its 2018 results would be at the low end of its forecasted range of between $1.00 and $1.07 a share.

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is looking into GE's accounting for contract assets, raising investor concern but GE has said it is not overly concerned about the investigation.

GE said in February that it expects to make the adjustments as it switches to the new accounting standards for contracts.

GE said it chose to restate 2016 and 2017 earnings, a more exacting standard under the new rules, because it will allow investors to compare 2018 results with the prior years.





(Reporting by Alwyn Scott; Editing by Bill Rigby and Clive McKeef)Let's take a look at the reasons behind Broadridge's (BR) impressive price performance and see why the company is poised to continue with its momentum in the near term.

It has been about a month since the last earnings report for Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. CPRX. Shares have lost about 7.4% in that time frame.

Will the recent negative trend continue leading up to its next earnings release, or is CPRX due for a breakout? Before we dive into how investors and analysts have reacted as of late, let's take a quick look at the most recent earnings report in order to get a better handle on the important catalysts.

Catalyst Posts In-Line Q4 Loss, Pipeline in Progress

Catalyst reported a loss of 6 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 2017, on par with the Zacks Consensus Estimate. The reported loss was wider than the year-ago loss of 5 cents.

Being a development-stage company, Catalyst Pharma does not have any approved product in its portfolio yet. Hence, the company did not generate any revenues in the quarter.

Quarter in Detail

Research and development (R&D) expenses were $3.4 million, up 20.7% from the year-ago quarter. The costs included expenses related to ongoing studies and trials for Firdapse, costs associated with the Firdapse Expanded Access Program and expenses pertaining to the CPP-115 and generic Sabril programs.

General and administrative expenses totaled $2.1 million, up 41% from the year-ago quarter.

Pipeline Update

Currently, Catalyst has two candidates under development — Firdapse and CPP-115.

The company made significant progress with respect to the second phase III study evaluating Firdapse for the treatment of Lambert-Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome. Catalyst also successfully completed the required abuse liability studies that confirmed that Firdapse does not exhibit abuse potential.

The company also expects to enroll patients in its phase III study for MuSK antibody positive myasthenia gravis in the first half of 2018 and the proof-of-concept study for spinal muscular atrophy Type 3 in the second quarter of 2018.

Meanwhile, the company is on track to resubmit its new drug application for Firdapse in the first quarter of 2018 and is actively engaged in pre-commercialization activities for a potential launch of the same.

The company expects to complete enrollment in the phase III CMS (CMS-001) study before 2018-end and report top-line results it in the first quarter of 2019.

How Have Estimates Been Moving Since Then?

In the past month, investors have witnessed an upward trend in fresh estimates. There has been one revision higher for the current quarter. In the past month, the consensus estimate has shifted by 14.3% due to these changes.

Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Price and Consensus

Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Price and Consensus | Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Quote

VGM Scores

At this time, CPRX has a subpar Growth Score of D, though it is lagging a bit on the momentum front with an F. Following the exact same course, the stock was allocated a grade of F on the value side, putting it in the lowest quintile for this investment strategy.

Overall, the stock has an aggregate VGM Score of F. If you aren't focused on one strategy, this score is the one you should be interested in.

Our style scores indicate investors will probably be better served looking elsewhere.

Outlook

Estimates have been trending upward for the stock and the magnitude of this revision looks promising. Notably, CPRX has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). We expect an in-line return from the stock in the next few months.



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (CPRX) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.While less than 1 percent of individual taxpayers are audited, there are items on your tax return that may trigger scrutiny from the IRS.Should you spend or save your tax refund? More

According to the IRS, 111 million Americans received tax refunds in 2017, and the average amount was nearly $3,000.00. Adam Sasiveri, Director of Bernstein Private Wealth Management, joins CBSN to discuss how to do something meaningful with your extra cash.In order to be successful, it's not enough just to save. You also have to know how to put the money you save to best use. That means knowing about some of the ways that the IRS offers tax benefits to those who take advantage of certain types of accounts, and using them to the fullest extent possible.

In particular, there are two tax breaks that the IRS offers every year, and most taxpayers can use one or both of them. But to use them, you have to act quickly, because the deadline for adding money to these accounts for the 2017 tax year is approaching fast. Below, we'll look at these two different tax breaks -- IRAs and health savings accounts -- and whether you can benefit from using one or both of them in your financial planning.

Wall with Internal Revenue Service engraved. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Get money into an IRA

If you've made money from a regular job, a side gig, or your own business, then you're allowed to save money in an IRA. The limit for the 2017 tax year is $5,500 if you're younger than 50 or $6,500 if you're 50 or older, as long as you've earned at least that much during the year. The deadline for making contributions for 2017 is the tax filing deadline of April 17, 2018. Even if you get an extension to file your taxes, you can't get extra time to open an IRA.

Investors can choose between two different types of IRAs: Roth or traditional. A traditional IRA offers an upfront tax deduction that you can take on your 2017 tax return, saving you in taxes right now. A Roth IRA doesn't offer a deduction, but it does produce tax-free income even when you take withdrawals in retirement. Various income limits determine whether you can make a contribution to a Roth IRA at all, as well as whether you can deduct the contributions you make to a traditional IRA. Nevertheless, there's always at least some type of IRA that's available for you to use to save for retirement.

Can an HSA help you?

Health savings accounts are special savings vehicles intended for use in paying healthcare expenses. If you have coverage under a high-deductible health plan, then HSAs let you set aside money that you can later use toward qualifying care. Covered costs include not only doctor visits, prescription drugs, and medical procedures, but also the co-payments that you have to make with regular health insurance.

Not all health insurance counts as high-deductible. Your policy has to have minimum deductibles of $1,300 for single coverage or $2,600 for family coverage in order to qualify as an HDHP, and if it doesn't, then you can't make an HSA contribution.

If your insurance does qualify, then you can contribute up to $3,400 for self-only coverage or $6,750 for family coverage for the 2017 tax year. The contributions are tax-deductible on your 2017 return, and the money comes out on a tax-free basis as long as you use it to pay covered medical expenses. But to take advantage of favorable tax treatment for HSA contributions for 2017, you have to get money into your account by the April 17 tax filing deadline.

Act now

With just hours before the end of tax season, it's coming down to crunch time for those hoping to take advantage of these two tax breaks. But it's not too late. If you act fast, then you can just make it and potentially come up with thousands of dollars of last-minute tax savings.

More From The Motley Fool

The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.It’s one of the toughest questions to answer this year: amid all the fears and uncertainties in the broader markets, why haven’t gold stocks jumped in valuation? The traditional safe haven asset hasn’t looked good since collapsing in 2013. And despite some promising developments, every move up is seemingly fiercely contested.

Although it’s a tired sentiment, investors should note that this time could really be different. For one thing, the bullion sector, and to a large degree, gold stocks, perform well during periods of market fear. Honestly, what better word describes the current mainstream emotion? Although the benchmark indices have recently put up strong numbers, the Dow Jones is still down 1.6% year-to-date.

Next, we have to consider the Trump factor. Our President doesn’t lack anything in the confidence department, but political competency is another matter. No, I’m not delivering a cheap shot at our Commander-in-Chief. Rather, I’m suggesting that his diplomatic skills will be tested in a baptism of fire. Maybe it will work out, or maybe it won’t. Either way, gold stocks to buy don’t seem like a bad idea!

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Finally, gold prices may see a seasonality boost. Since 1999, the second quarter on a year-over-year basis produces the strongest gains. Granted, the margins are small: the second quarter averages 10.1% YOY returns, while the worst quarter (the first) produces 9.6% returns. Still, it is a statistical advantage.

With all that’s going on right now, precious metals are a smart play. Here are seven gold stocks that will find a momentum burst this spring!





7 Gold Stocks to Buy: Barrick Gold Corp (USA) (ABX)

Barrick Gold Corp (USA) (NYSE:ABX) More

Source: Shutterstock

One of the biggest temptations in gold stocks is seeking out the cheapest name possible. While that could be a lucrative play, the probabilities aren’t very favorable. Instead, with a potential industry upturn on the horizon, you should load up with quality investments. In the precious metals mining sector, few are as renowned as Barrick Gold Corp (USA) (NYSE:ABX).

ABX stock is intriguing particularly due to its fundamentals. Unlike lesser firms that simply folded during the metals fallout, Barrick rolled up their sleeves and got to work. Recognizing top-line hardships, management made tough but necessary decisions to streamline the organization. The results are conspicuous. Over the last four years, SGA expenses declined from $412 million to $301 million, or a 27% reduction.

Other unnecessary operating expenses were eliminated, helping to free up $66 million from four years prior. Thanks to their efforts, ABX went from losing $2.9 billion in 2014 to producing $655 million, and $1.44 billion in net income over the past two years.

But despite these significant achievements, ABX stock is down 12.6%. I think this is an overreaction. Barrick is a much leaner and more efficient company than it was during the metals downturn. In addition, it’s also profitable – something that not too many in the sector can say.





7 Gold Stocks to Buy: Royal Gold, Inc (USA) (RGLD)

7 Gold Stocks to Buy: Royal Gold, Inc (USA) (RGLD) More

Source: Shutterstock

Pure gold mining operations tend to be all-or-nothing affairs: either the project produces gold and other precious metals, or it does not. I understand that this scenario appeals to many gold stocks investors; however, other people want a reasonable exposure level to the mining industry. For the latter, Royal Gold, Inc (USA) (NASDAQ:RGLD) fits the bill perfectly.Following the departure of legendary casino mogul Steve Wynn from his Wynn Resorts, Limited (NASDAQ: WYNN) earlier this year, speculation is growing as to whether one of the other casino companies will make a run at WYNN. Las Vegas Sands Corp. (NYSE: LVS) would certainly seem to be one possibility.

Steve Wynn has sold off his stake in the company he founded. And his former wife is unlikely to stand in the way of an acquisition, given that she can cash out of her holdings in the process. It makes this scenario seem very reasonable.

The first thing I look at in this situation is whether an acquisition would even be feasible. Wynn Resorts has a $20 billion market cap and had operating income last year of $1.06 billion. This was nearly double the amount for 2016. The multi-year nightmare of Macau seems to finally be coming to a close. The Chinese government appears to have finally backed off on its crackdown on rich people who go and play big-money tables and Macau.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

WYNN is sitting on a little over $3 billion in cash, with long-term debt at $9.56 billion. That debt set the company back $389 million in interest payments in 2017. However, the good news is the company finally generated positive free cash flow again, to the tune of $940 million last year. This came after several years of negative free cash flow.

Wynn Resorts stock has a valuation of $19.9 billion. That’s a little over three times revenue, almost eight times gross profit, and almost 20 times operating income.

Las Vegas Sands Stock Valuation

Las Vegas Sands stock has a valuation of $56 billion. However, the valuation metrics for LVS stock are quite different. LVS stock has a valuation of 4.3 times revenue, about 8.8 times gross profit and almost 14 times operating income. However, there is a critical difference between Las Vegas Sands stock and its potential target. LVS stock has a far more diversified business than Wynn Resorts has ever had.

Las Vegas Sands does not merely own one resort in Macau. It owns The Venetian Macau Resort Hotel, the Sands Cotai Central, The Parisian Macau, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macau, Cotai Strip, and the Sands Macao in Macau; and Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. The company also owns and operates The Venetian Resort Hotel Casino and The Palazzo Resort Hotel Casino on the Las Vegas Strip; the Sands Expo and Convention Center in Las Vegas; and the Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.

Consequently Las Vegas Sands stock has had robust operating income for several years, hitting $3.46 billion in 2017 alone. It has also had plenty of free cash flow over the years. In 2015, it generated $1.9 billion in free cash flow. In 2016, it generated $2.6 billion in free cash flow and 2017 resulted in $3.7 billion in free cash flow. Las Vegas Sands stock price is also holding up well because it carries about $2.4 billion in cash and $9.3 billion in debt, costing at $327 million annually in interest payments.

Potential Impact on Las Vegas Sands Stock

I don’t see any reason why management must go after Wynn, but the acquisition would certainly make sense. It would help to further establish its presence in both Las Vegas and Macau — arguably, when stock is cheap in terms of valuation based on revenue and gross profit.

I could see a modest 10% premium being offered to shareholders — especially considering that their legendary and visionary CEO is no longer at the helm. What does a $22 billion purchase look like? It’s probably an all-stock deal. Las Vegas Sands stock owners would have to assume Wynn resorts debt on top of the $9 billion they already have themselves.

The one obstacle is that it could result in about 30% dilution of Las Vegas Sands shareholders. The question then is whether they are getting 30% value added to their company. As it turns out, that is the case — 30% of $3.46 billion of operating income for Las Vegas Sands would be matched by the $1.06 billion in operating income it wins.

So I certainly see this as a possible play for Las Vegas Sands. The question is whether MGM resorts is going to compete for that bed, as I suspect it will.

Lawrence Meyers is the CEO of PDL Capital, a specialty lender focusing on consumer finance. Meyers is the manager of The Liberty Portfolio at www.thelibertyportfolio.com. He does not own any stock mentioned. He has 23 years of experience in the stock market, and has written more than 2,000 articles on investing. Lawrence Meyers can be reached at TheLibertyPortfolio@gmail.com.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Expect Las Vegas Sands Corp. to Bid for Wynn Resorts appeared first on InvestorPlace.From Esquire

After a rough week, President Trump blew off some steam Thursday night by ordering an investigation of the Post Office's finances. Just before 9 p.m., Trump issued an executive order creating a government task force to examine the “unsustainable financial path” of the United States Postal Service. Why? It's hard to argue it's for any other reason than a petty grudge.

Late last month, the president fired off several tweets attacking Amazon and its CEO Jeff Bezos, who last October became the richest man in the world. In 2013, Bezos bought The Washington Post, one of the president's favorite purveyors of Fake News. Since 2015 Trump has accused Bezos of using the paper as a "lobbyist" for Amazon, claiming that the online retailer is getting away with not paying taxes.

Trump's criticism of Amazon has grown to include how the company uses the USPS as its "Delivery Boy," causing it to "LOSE A FORTUNE." It's unclear what spurred Trump's latest tirade-which has been unleashed across six tweets since March 29-although it's likely the result of a few unfavorable stories in The Washington Post.

I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the U.S.), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business! - Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 29, 2018

Trump prides himself as a counter-puncher, and now that he's president, he has the federal government at his disposal. What does this new "task force" stand to discover? Probably what everyone else seems to already know: Amazon actually makes money for the USPS.

The Post Office does offer Amazon a cheaper shipping rate because of the volume the company guarantees. By no stretch of the imagination is Amazon causing the USPS to lose a "fortune," as Trump insists. In fact, most experts agree Amazon is helping keep the Post Office solvent. While the USPS has lost money of each the last 11 years, its packages and shipping department is booming, hauling in $19 billion in revenue in 2017.

The thing is, the USPS couldn't even lose money on Amazon if it wanted to. A law passed in 2006 stipulates that the Post Office must set its prices high enough to at least break even with each of its clients.

Photo credit: Robert Alexander/Getty Images - Getty Images More

For Trump, there's also the issue of Amazon not paying taxes. This, too, is false. According to the New York Times, Amazon paid an average tax rate of 13 percent from 2007 to 2015, which is lower than average but higher than companies like Facebook and Boeing. (Never mind that Trump's entire career in real estate was built on fighting New York City for exorbitant tax breaks.)

Trump could be referring to sales tax, which Amazon avoided (legally) in various states for years. As of last April, however, the company pays sales tax in all 45 states that have one. Experts and advisers have reportedly attempted to explain all of this to Trump, but he's only doubled down.

Only fools, or worse, are saying that our money losing Post Office makes money with Amazon. THEY LOSE A FORTUNE, and this will be changed. Also, our fully tax paying retailers are closing stores all over the country...not a level playing field! - Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 2, 2018

Story ContinuesFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg appears at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing on Wednesday. His time on Capitol Hill this week led to many memes and edited images. (The Washington Post via Getty Images)

Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg inspired a ton of memes and funny images this week during his two days of testimony before House and Senate committees.

But one is truly out of this world.

Evan, who preferred to be identified by only his first name to protect his privacy, edited a photo to make the Facebook CEO look like Data, a character from “Star Trek” who is an android. The 19-year-old from Canada posted the image to Reddit with the caption: “Lt. Commander Zuck in court after his plan to study humans in greater detail backfires.”

Evan posted this photo to Reddit. More

Not only does the picture poke fun of Zuckerberg’s robotic responses void of emotion while in the hot seat in Congress, but the sign in front of him is also a pun.

“Mr. Data Accumulator” it reads, referring to both the “Star Trek” character’s name and Cambridge Analytica, the company that harvested data from Facebook users without their knowledge.

Many Reddit users really loved the image and came up with puns of their own:

Comment from discussion Lt. Commander Zuck in court after his plan to study humans in greater detail backfires.



Though the image is undeniably clever, Evan is the first to admit he didn’t come up with the idea on his own. During Zuckerberg’s two days of testimony, some people on social media pointed out that the CEO looked a lot like Data.

Mark Zuckerberg’s manner has always reminded me of someone, but I could never quite grasp hold of it.



Just now it hit me, watching him testify about data. pic.twitter.com/4Zs2eGlsHD

— Matthew Teague (@MatthewTeague) April 10, 2018

Evan told HuffPost that he saw a few images online of Zuckerberg with Data’s trademark yellow eyes and captions that read something along the lines of: “The more of your data I gather, the more I understand what it means to be human.”

He liked the jokes and was about to send an image to one of his friends but thought, “You know, whoever did this didn’t really put a lot of effort into it, I think I can do better.”

And so he did.

“Data is an Android from the 24th century who can’t feel emotions (usually), and expends a great deal of effort attempting to understand the human condition,” Evan told HuffPost. “Mark Zuckerberg is an awkward man who is the CEO of a massive social media platform.”

“It’s just a dumb, funny joke, which is all I ever intended my picture to be,” he added.

We’re sure Data would have appreciated it.

This article originally appeared on HuffPost.

Video: Interesting Moments from Mark Zuckerberg's Senate Hearing

Watch news, TV and more on Yahoo View.On Tuesday and Wednesday, Zuckerberg gave testimony to Congress in response to his company's role in the Cambridge Analytica scandal, Russian election interference, and his website's utter nightmare of data privacy. He impressed people by wearing his absolute nicest human suit.

Mr. Zuckerberg's ten hours of dodging lawmakers' questions in the proverbial hot seat evoked the internet's best memes about aliens who fool humanity into becoming food. The Cirque du Dystopia atmosphere was enhanced by Zuckerberg's actual seat, which was fitted with a booster cushion to make him appear taller. His wee seat certainly distracted press from the truly freaky attempts at misdirection flowing from his face hole.

Much virtual ink was spilled fussing over the 33-year-old boy billionaire wearing a suit like a grown-up man to talk to the adults. Wow! They grow up so fast on those diets of purloined data! But yes: he sat on a booster seat, which may have actually been a wireless charging station. And while Zuckerberg let slip little things like his belief that Facebook is basically above the law, far too many writeups goggled at his silly big-boy chair.

It's a carefully cultivated image. An indulgence granted to a certain kind of white startup jock who gets endless chances to drunk-drive democracy and human rights, as if he's a freshman intern just learning the ropes of ethics, trust, and professionalism. An image Zuckerberg himself perpetuated throughout the hearing by mentioning Facebook's college dorm room creation myth on a loop. (See also: "Mark Zuckerberg Cited For Contempt Of Congress After Refusing To Shut The Fuck Up About How He Started Company In Dorm Room.")

Getting a good, long look at him unsettled much of the general population. Much ado was made of his thousand-yard stare and robotic enjoyment of human water. Star Trek Next Generation fans were rankled by his uncanny resemblance to Data. But any real story lay in Zuckerberg's responses, which infuriated the bipartisan assembly with clumsy, repetitive avoidance tactics and bizarre, often fact-challenged admissions.

When not clamming up like a busted murder suspect when lawmakers mentioned Palantir, that is.

Let's just say that fact-checking in the aftermath is not looking good. Zuckerberg said he'd never heard of Facebook's "shadow profiles," causing The Guardian to get whiplash from their double-take. He claimed that everyone consents to giving Facebook their data, despite also saying that Facebook tracks non-users for reasons of "security" ... and commercial purposes. That's like consent, right?

Anyway. He practically did a "look, shiny!" when asked about Facebook's tracking of logged-off users. His answer was politely described as "vague" in press — even though Facebook has been caught doing exactly this, and repeatedly, and their continual activity doing so was ruled illegal. Hey: keeping up with headlines about your own company, one that you lovingly started in your dorm room because you really care about human connection, is hard when you're a genius. And when asked about collecting transaction data? Nah, he said he didn't think they did that, nope. But maybe Mark should've checked out Facebook's website before his big day. The Guardian did and Facebook says it does exactly that on its website.

He almost broke the brains of fact-checkers at the New York Times, too. Mr. Zuckerberg told lawmakers that his company first learned of Russia's Facebook influence operations "Right around the time of the 2016 election itself." Prior to this week, that answer used to be 2017. When he told lawmakers "We made changes in 2014 that would have prevented what happened with Cambridge Analytica from happening today," NYT was like, yeah ... not so much. The paper flat-out said Zuckerberg's statement "Cambridge Analytica wasn't using our services in 2015 as far as we can tell" is false.

And pretty much everyone on the planet laughed when he said "You're not allowed to have a fake account on Facebook."

(Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images) MoreApr.13 -- Sergio Marchionne, chief executive officer of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V., discusses leadership changes in the auto industry, North American profit margins, and rewarding shareholders. He speaks with Bloomberg's Tommaso Ebhardt in Amsterdam.By Nate Raymond

BOSTON (Reuters) - Massachusetts' top court on Friday rejected Exxon Mobil Corp's (XOM.N) bid to block the state's attorney general from obtaining records to investigate whether the company for decades concealed its knowledge of the role fossil fuels play in climate change.

The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court ruled Attorney General Maura Healey had jurisdiction to seek records to probe whether the oil company's marketing or sale of fossil fuel products violated the state's consumer protection law.

The ruling marked another setback for Exxon after a federal judge in March dismissed a related lawsuit it filed seeking to block investigations by Healey and New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, both of whom are Democrats.

Exxon argued that because it is incorporated in Texas and New Jersey, Healey had no basis to issue a demand for documents in 2016 to conduct a Massachusetts-based investigation of whether it misled consumers and investors.

But Justice Elspeth Cypher, writing for a 6-0 court, said jurisdiction existed because of Exxon's control over advertising conducted for about 300 franchise gas stations operating under the Exxon and Mobil brands in Massachusetts.

She said Healey's probe related to how manmade greenhouse gas emissions had caused climate change, "a distinctly modern threat that grows more serious with time, and the effects of which are already being felt in Massachusetts."

Healey said she hoped Exxon would now turn over documents it has fought hard against disclosing, showing what it knew about climate change and when it knew it.

"I hope this decision will encourage Exxon to end their scorched earth campaign," she said.

Scott Silvestri, a spokesman for Exxon, said the company was considering its next steps.

Healey and Schneiderman launched their investigations following news reports in 2015 saying Exxon's own scientists determined that fossil fuel combustion must be reduced to mitigate the impact of climate change.

Those reports by InsideClimate News and the Los Angeles Times were based on documents from the 1970s and 1980s. Exxon contended that the documents were not inconsistent with its public positions.

Exxon has called the investigations politically motivated and in a separate lawsuit filed in federal court claimed that Schneiderman and Healey were conspiring to "silence and intimidate one side of the public policy debate."

But U.S. District Judge Valerie Caproni in Manhattan dismissed that case in March, rejecting as "implausible" Exxons' claim Healey and Schneiderman were pursuing bad faith investigations in order to violate its constitutional rights.





(Reporting by Nate Raymond in Boston; Editing by David Gregorio and Bill Trott)You’ve worked hard for decades and now the time has come to enjoy yourself. Regardless of what you do in your retirement, you should always be aware of how much you have left for retirement savings. There isn’t just a danger issue of running out of savings, you can also hurt yourself by not spacing out your spending. This is where a retirement budget really helps.

Why Is a Retirement Budget Important?

Spending money during retirement is a challenge because most retirees have little income outside of their savings. Yes, there are Social Security benefits, but those are not enough to live off (especially if you plan to travel). To ensure that you don’t draw too quickly from your savings, it is useful to create a plan for how you will space out your spending. This plan is your retirement budget.

Some people do not like using the word budget because they feel that the process of budgeting has a negative connotation. It makes people think of depriving themselves of the things they want to do. However, a budget isn’t about depriving yourself. It’s about making sure that you have the necessary funds to spend money on the things you actually want to spend money on.

How Much Will You Spend in Retirement?

When planning your retirement budget, this is a good question to start with. Most people spend significantly less each month after they retire than before they retired. The rule of thumb is that you can expect your expenses to be 70% to 80% of what they were before you retires. So if you spent $1,000 each month before you retired, you could expect to spend about $700 to $800 each month in retirement.

Now, this is just a rule of thumb. Your exact spending will depend on where you live, your lifestyle and how much you have in retirement savings. So while the 70% to 80% figure is useful for getting you started, you should create a more specific plan for your spending.

Retirement Budgets vs. Other Budgets

As you start a budget, you may first want to check out this article on how to make a budget. It will walk you through the steps of creating a general budget. The process for creating a retirement budget will be similar with a few retirement-specific things considerations. For example, your retirement income may come largely from personal savings instead of from an employer.

Making a Retirement Budget: Your Income

Start your retirement budget planning by considering what your retirement income will be. Do have any pensions? How much will you make each money from Social Security benefits? (If you’re unsure, try this Social Security benefits calculator. It will tell you how much you can expect based on your income and when you retire.)

Look at your retirement savings across all your accounts. You may have some money in an employer’s 401(k) and some money in an IRA. If you switched jobs at any point and didn’t roll over 401(k), you may have money saved with a previous employer. Some people have annuities that pay a certain amount each month.

Write down all your sources of income and how much you plan to make each month.

Making a Retirement Budget: Your Expenses

making a retirement budget 2 More

You know how much money you will have each month. The next step is to figure out how much you will spend each month. Look over your bills from the months leading up to retirement in order to see where your money is going.

It’s a good idea to label your expenses as either essential or nonessential. Essentials are the things that you have to spend money on each month. This includes any rent, mortgage payments, loans, household bills and groceries. Nonessentials are the things you don’t need to have in order to get by in life. This would include magazine subscriptions, eating out at restaurants and travel.

Write down all of your essential monthly expenses in one place. Adding up expenses tells you the bare minimum that you need to spend each month. If you ever get into a financial bind, this is the spending number you should fall back on. You cannot cut out these expenses without exposing yourself to some financial or personal risk. Meanwhile, things like TV subscriptions and morning lattes can all be cut when you need to save.

Story ContinuesMonthly dividend stocks are popular with investors – and with good reason. Monthly payments line up better with monthly bills, particularly for retirees living off investment income. Over time, there’s even a modest incremental benefit from compounding, particularly for investors successfully using DRIP plans.

The 7 Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income More

Source: Shutterstock

The catch is that there aren’t all that many monthly payers, which limits the options for investors. Most monthly payers are REITs of some kind – and a good chunk are mortgage REITs, which are facing rising interest rates.

Some ETFs also offer monthly distributions, but may not be suitable for investors who see an edge in stock-picking.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Still, there are attractive stocks with monthly dividends out there. These 7 dividend stocks also offer strong yields paid monthly – and a bull case for capital appreciation as well.





Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Realty Income Corp (O)

It’s tough to make this list without Realty Income Corp (NYSE:O). Indeed, when I reviewed the space last year, O stock led off the list as well.

Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Realty Income Corp (O) More

After all, Realty Income’s slogan is “The Monthly Dividend Company”. And historically it’s been the best performer of the group. Over the past ten years, O’s total return has been 237%. Since its inception in 1994, O shareholders have gained almost 3,000%.

And yet, O looks reasonably cheap, as its performance has stalled out of late. Realty Income stock actually hit a two-year low in early February, before rallying nearly 10% since.

There’s reason to see that rally continuing. O offers an attractive yield just over 5% – a rare figure for the stock this decade. The company closed 2017 with over 5,000 properties and 247 tenants, offering significant diversification which moderates risk. And yet the stock trades at just 16.3x the midpoint of 2018 FFO guidance – which, too, is one of the lowest figures seen this decade.

Indeed, at these levels, O stock simply looks like a buy. The monthly dividend payments are just the cherry on top of the sundae.





Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Permian Basin Royalty Trust (PBT)

Up front, investors need to be aware of the risks in Permian Basin Royalty Trust (NYSE:PBT). Like most royalty trusts, PBT owns depleting assets – in this case acreage in Texas’ Permian Basin. Investors own units, not shares of stock, which can add tax complications.

Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: Permian Basin Royalty Trust (PBT) More

Source: Shutterstock

Distributions aren’t fixed, but rather fluctuate month to month. And PBT is highly sensitive to the price of oil and the production in its fields by a subsidiary of ConocoPhillips (NYSE:COP).

All that said, PBT has a lot to offer. The March distribution projects to an annual yield over 9%. Investors bullish on oil prices can use PBT as a direct play, which takes away some of the internal hedges in stocks like COP or Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE:XOM). And unlike some trusts which have been yield traps like BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust (NYSE:BPT), production still is growing – as are distributions, for the most part.

Again, this isn’t a stock where investors can simply focus on the 9%+ yield and see value. But given what look like strong reserves and a solid outlook for crude, there should be value in PBT.





Best Dividend Stocks for Monthly Income: EPR Properties (EPR)

EPR Properties (NYSE:EPR) has had a rough go of it of late. Indeed, EPR stock is down 26% over the past year.

Story ContinuesInvestors like dividend stocks that aren't stingy with their payouts. Yet even among the elite ranks of the Dividend Aristocrats -- stocks that have increased their annual payments to shareholders for at least 25 straight years -- you can find some companies with dividend yields that are embarrassingly low. Below, we'll look more closely at Roper Technologies (NYSE: ROP), S&P; Global (NYSE: SPGI), and Sherwin-Williams (NYSE: SHW) to see why they give investors a somewhat mixed picture when it comes to dividends.

Roper comes in with a whimper

Roper Technologies is one of the newest members of the Dividend Aristocrats, with annual increases dating back exactly a quarter-century, to 1993. Yet the amount that it pays in dividends is unusually low, with a current yield of just 0.6% even after a sizable 18% dividend boost earlier this year.

The main justification for the low yield stems from Roper's long-term strategy. The company is a conglomerate of several different types of businesses. Its radio-frequency technology gets used in areas like toll road electronic payment collection systems and remote monitoring, while it also makes diagnostic and lab software solutions, control systems, and a host of other industrial technology products. Roper grows by making frequent acquisitions, and it believes that it can better put its ample cash flow to work by finding new business opportunities instead of returning huge amounts of capital in dividends. That's been a solid long-term strategy for shareholders who value share-price appreciation above income, even if some dividend investors might prefer a bit more attention to the payout side.

S&P Global doesn't hit the benchmark

S&P Global is the company behind well-known stock market benchmarks like the Dow and S&P 500, providing a wealth of information and analysis of the financial markets across the globe. Credit ratings assess bond quality, while the S&P Dow Jones Indices segment tracks key indices both for the stock market and other financial markets. The company also has an impressive database of market data and proprietary research that it offers to clients.

For dividend investors, S&P Global's yield of just over 1% stands out as being barely half what the overall market pays on average. Yet S&P has been aware of the potential disconnect, deciding to increase its quarterly payout by 22% earlier this year. That still leaves the 45-year veteran of annual payout increases with work to do to catch up to its peers on the yield front, but S&P Global is riding the wave of interest in financial markets higher and has delivered strong overall performance to its long-term shareholders.

Dragon and lanterns made entirely out of paint splotches. More

Image source: Sherwin-Williams.

Sherwin-Williams needs more green paint

Finally, Sherwin-Williams is probably the most familiar household name among these three Dividend Aristocrats. The paint specialist runs its own chain of retail stores as well as offering paint and coatings products to third-party home improvement retailers. Dividend investors like the fact that Sherwin-Williams has increased its annual dividend payouts every year for the past 40 years, but they're less than excited by the stock's 0.9% yield.

What's especially troubling is that Sherwin-Williams doesn't seem to see any problem with its dividend strategy, having made just a 1% increase to its quarterly payout in February. Yet investors in the stock don't have a lot of reason to complain, as the paint specialist has taken maximum advantage of favorable conditions in the housing market to generate strong earnings and impressive share-price gains recently. As long as total return remains solid, Sherwin-Williams can justify its behavior even to income investors who would prefer to see more generous payouts.Consumer staples such as household and personal products have relatively stable demand over time – people don’t stop cleaning their houses during an economic downturn! Although this sector may not produce spectacular growth, they do provide a strong reliable stream of constant income which is a great diversifier during economic downturns. As a long term investor, I favour these consumer staples stocks with great dividend payments that continues to add value to my portfolio.

Produce Investments plc (AIM:PIL)

PIL has a juicy dividend yield of 4.82% and pays 24.02% of it’s earnings as dividends , and analysts are expecting a 29.55% payout ratio in the next three years. Besides capital gain prospects, just the yield is higher than the low risk savings rate – enticing for investors with goals of beating their bank accounts. Plus, a 4.82% yield places it amidst the market’s top dividend payers. The company outperformed the gb food industry’s earnings growth of 16.15%, reporting an EPS growth of 215.81% over the past 12 months. More detail on Produce Investments here.

AIM:PIL Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

Wynnstay Group plc (AIM:WYN)

WYN has a sizeable dividend yield of 2.97% and pays out 39.03% of its profit as dividends , with analysts expecting a 41.66% payout in the next three years. Although investors would have seen a few years of reduced payments, it has so far always picked up again, with dividends increasing from UK£0.055 to UK£0.13 over the past 10 years. More on Wynnstay Group here.

AIM:WYN Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

Portmeirion Group plc (AIM:PMP)

PMP has a solid dividend yield of 3.15% and has a payout ratio of 53.27% . The company’s dividends per share have risen from UK£0.15 to UK£0.35 over the last 10 years. They have been consistent too, not missing a payment during this 10 year period. Dig deeper into Portmeirion Group here.

AIM:PMP Historical Dividend Yield Apr 14th 18 More

For more solid dividend paying companies to add to your portfolio, explore this interactive list of top dividend payers.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.Caterpillar (CAT) has seen its stock price sink more than 11% over the last 12 weeks. The construction and mining equipment power's shares have tried to recover recently, but it might take strong first quarter financial results for CAT to get back on track amid the current market volatility.

Caterpillar CAT has seen its stock price sink more than 11% over the last 12 weeks. The construction and mining equipment power’s shares have tried to recover recently, but it might take strong first quarter financial results for CAT to get back on track amid the current market volatility.

Caterpillar posted pretty substantial top and bottom line beats in the fourth quarter. The company’s adjusted earnings of $2.16 per share surpassed our Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.77 per share by 22%. CAT’s Q4 revenues came in at $12.9 billion, well above our $11.9 billion estimate.

Despite these solid fourth quarter results, shares of Caterpillar closed Friday trading at $150.23 per share, far below the $169.37 per share they traded at directly following the release of Caterpillar’s Q4 results in January.

This might signal that Caterpillar’s recent downturn is based more on overall market trends than company specific worries, but many investors can’t afford to take that risk during this recent bearish stretch. Therefore, they should look for stocks that are poised to perform well during first quarter earnings season in order to try to avoid any further turmoil.

With that said, let’s check out Caterpillar’s upcoming first quarter estimates to see what might be in store.

Outlook & Valuation

Our current Zacks Consensus Estimates are calling for Caterpillar’s Q1 revenues to surge by 18.9% to reach $11.68 billion. Maybe more impressively for a company of its size, CAT’s first quarter earnings are projected to skyrocket by 62.5% to hit $2.08 per share.

Meanwhile, Caterpillar has experienced mixed earnings estimate revision activity over the last 30 days, earning two upward revisions against one downward revision.

Investors should note that Caterpillar’s Most Accurate Estimate is $2.12 per share, which is 4 cents above our current consensus estimate. This means that estimates have come in higher as we inch closer to Caterpillar’s Q1 earnings.

CAT is also currently trading with a Forward P/E of 15.81, which marks the slightest of discounts compared to the “Manufacturing - Construction and Mining” industry’s average of 15.85.

Price Performance and Surprise History

Another important factor that investors might want to consider ahead of Caterpillar’s Q1 earnings report is the company’s history of earnings surprises and the effect that these surprises have had on share prices.

Caterpillar Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise

Caterpillar Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | Caterpillar Inc. Quote

Investors can see that Caterpillar has posted a strong earnings surprise history over the last few years, including an average surprise of 51.6% in the trailing four quarters. It is also worth noting that Caterpillar’s stock price has sunk immediately following the release of its quarterly earnings results multiple times, despite these beats.

Bottom Line

With that said, past performance does not necessarily indicate future success or failure, and we will have a better idea of where the construction and mining equipment giant stands closer to its report date, which is scheduled for April 24.

However, investors should remember that Caterpillar is expected to see its top and bottom lines expand significantly in the first quarter, which is impressive for a company of its age and size.

Story ContinuesOne of America’s most beloved home retailers faced a hard day in the market on April 12—Bed Bath and Beyond shares tumbled to a 10-year low, trading down to $17.21.









The fall came after a lukewarm earnings report showed company sales and earnings at expectations, but earnings-per-share forecasts for 2018 below what analysts had predicted (paywall).

It’s yet another sign of the struggles for brick-and-mortar retail. In March, Toys ‘R’ Us filed for bankruptcy, announcing it would close or sell all its US stores. Macy’s has blamed “changing customer behavior”—a nod to the rise of Amazon —for the shuttering of 100 of its stores.

Some analysts, though, are skeptical that Amazon is to blame for Bed Bath & Beyond’s particular troubles. The company faces plenty of competition in retail, from privately owned companies like Crate & Barrel and Home Depot to the even larger Walmart.









And there are weaknesses to Bed Bath and Beyond’s business model. Generous promotions and heavy couponing can keep customers out of stores. Too many customers have come to expect the standard 20%-off coupon, say analysts at Jefferies (paywall).

“Profit is also affected by Bed Bath & Beyond’s discounting and its rather slapdash approach to coupons and vouchers,” Neil Saunders, the managing director of research firm GlobalData Retail tells CNN.

So now another thing that’s 20% discounted is the home retailer’s stock.

Sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief, our free daily newsletter with the world’s most important and interesting news.

More stories from Quartz:



You have to spend money to make money. That's a maxim investors understand well, and it is one reason individual stocks frequently rally even as their profits decline. Spiking short-term costs are acceptable if they're helping build a stronger long-term market position.

Wall Street isn't as forgiving when earnings drop in the context of shrinking sales, or when the profit slump lacks a clear ending point. That's essentially the situation Bed Bath & Beyond (NASDAQ: BBBY) investors find themselves in today.

Inside a shopping mall. More

Image source: Getty Images.

A tough quarter

The retailer recently announced fourth-quarter earnings results that paired reduced revenue with plunging profitability. Sales at existing locations fell in the mid-single-digit range as customer traffic declined. A boost in the e-commerce channel, and slightly higher spending per visitor, only partially offset that slump. As a result, overall comparable-store sales slipped by about 1% for both the quarter and the full fiscal year.

Meanwhile, Bed Bath & Beyond endured painful declines in core profitability metrics. Gross margin dropped to 36% of sales from 38% thanks to price cuts. Higher expenses, including labor, tech spending, and advertising, pushed operating profits down to $337 million, or 9% of sales, from $430 million, or 12% of sales a year ago.

BBBY Operating Margin (TTM) Chart More

BBBY Operating Margin (TTM) data by YCharts.

The good news

It wasn't all bad news in this report. Inventory levels declined sharply, which means the retailer entered the new fiscal year unburdened by aging merchandise it needs to unload through the heavy use of coupons. Instead, CFO Sue Lattmann said in a conference call with analysts that current inventories are "tailored to meet the anticipated demands of our customers and are in good condition."

Conservative capital spending and reduced stock buybacks combined to lift cash balances, too. Cash on hand was $744 million, up from $578 million at the end of fiscal 2016. This healthy financial position means Bed Bath & Beyond has time to work through its growth strategy. It also has the funds to support a deliberate and modest shrinking of its store base. The retailer is planning to close about 40 locations over the next year to keep its footprint at roughly 1,500 locations.James Comey. Robert Mueller. Michael Cohen. Rod Rosenstein. These are names you’re probably hoping not to hear if you’re holding stocks heading into the weekend.

Headline risk is high. There’s China trade tensions and war in the Middle East. Still, the S&P 500 Index is poised to end the week up 2 percent. Things have been a little easier for investors -- but for how long?

Former FBI director Comey is set to make multiple media appearances before the formal release of his book next week. Speculation over the future of Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein has picked up as the Mueller probe continues. Cohen, President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, remains in the spotlight after the FBI raided his office and home.

More from Bloomberg.com: Rise of ‘Gray’ Divorce Forces Financial Reckoning After 50

It raises the question, how do investors position ahead of a weekend that could be full of breaking news?

“I can’t read the president’s mind and can’t predict his actions, but if you believe we are going to get news over the weekend, you would want to de-risk going into that. Because if you do wind up with a situation where Rosenstein or Mueller get fired, that would create more volatility next week,” said Michael O’Rourke, JonesTrading’s chief market strategist. “If you’re a long-term investor, you’re probably not going to sell for those reasons. If you’re trading or a hedge fund, you would want to be more defensive or potentially short.”

Brian Shepardson, first vice president of James Investment Research in Xenia, Ohio, is among the former. His firm manages $4.5 billion and has a more long-term focus. He’s sitting tight, hoping the 200-day moving average holds, as it has over the past few weeks, should news erupt. But he sees why investors might pare equity exposure.

More from Bloomberg.com: The Aramco Accounts: Inside the World’s Most Profitable Company

“What a lot of people do is, if they’re over any type of equity target they may have, maybe sell on a Friday, get to a position that you’re comfortable with from the standpoint that on Saturday and Sunday news can come out without the availability to change a portfolio,” Shepardson said. “That’s probably what we’re seeing a little bit of on the bit of pullback today.”

The S&P 500 declined 0.3 percent Friday. Trading volume in the benchmark was about 17 percent below the 30-day average. The Cboe Volatility Index, known as the VIX, fell to 17.4 after hovering above 20 this week.

More from Bloomberg.com: TPP Nations Welcome Trump's Interest, Don't Want Renegotiation

“The VIX to me is indicating the anxiety level has lessened to some extent -- I don’t see any extra levels of anxiety, so you have to stick with what you want to do and not get jacked out by irrational fears,” said Donald Selkin, New York-based chief market strategist at Newbridge Securities Corp. Still, he added, a hedge could be a good idea on the eve of a weekend of potential “fireworks.”

“I wouldn’t be afraid to do something, but hedge yourself at the same time so you don’t get caught at an out-of-left-field situation with the Russia investigation or something in the Middle East,” he said.

Kevin Walkush, portfolio manager at Oregon-based Jensen Investment Management, is wary of overreacting to current events.

“It appears the market has become much more short-term focused, and it continues to get shorter-term focused,” Walkush said. “For investors who have that kind of time horizon, then maybe that’s going to impact their strategies. But I think for most people, I don’t think it’s something as much to be worried about in the long run.”

Updates with S&P 500 close in second, eighth paragraphs.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read This Weekend Could Be Rough on Your Portfolio on bloomberg.comHow many high-profile firings have occurred at closing time on Friday? With rumors currently swirling inside and outside the Beltway, end-of-week speculation is at an all-time high.

Plenty of Washington watchers believe that Friday is the day that President Trump’s tweeting trigger finger gets itchy, the day he is most likely to wake up and fire someone. With rumors currently swirling inside and outside the Beltway—will Deputy Attorney General Ron Rosenstein get the ax today? Will Trump finally pink slip his nemesis, special counsel Robert Mueller?—end-of-week speculation is at an all-time high. To see if past is, indeed, prologue, we decided to examine just how many heavy hitters have eaten dirt on a Friday.

At first, it seems like a lot: Fridays saw the sacking of the hapless White House Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and the punching-bag Communications Director Sean Spicer, who not only was the object of Melissa McCarthy’s scathing Saturday Night Live impersonation but is also said to have inhabited the bunny suit for Easter 2017. Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price also bit the dust on a Friday, as did the noxious national security aide Sebastian Gorka and the godfather of soullessness, Steve Bannon (who is still foaming at the mouth—despite his banishment, earlier this week he was allegedly clamoring for the president’s ear to find a way to eviscerate Mueller). And then there were those who voluntarily flew the coop on a Friday: deputy national security adviser Dina Powell; Trump adviser billionaire Carl Icahn; and perhaps most importantly, Associate Attorney General Rachel Brand, who would have been next in line after Rosenstein in terms of firing Mueller.

On the other hand, closer examination reveals that other days of the week are not exactly safe havens for Trump loyalists either. Mondays spelled doom for the now-indicted national security advisor Michael Flynn and Trump’s personal aide John McEntee (supposedly for an unrestrained appetite for Internet gambling). The foul-mouthed former Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci was also kicked out on the first day of the workweek. Tuesdays saw Trump bidding a very un-fond farewell to FBI Director James Comey (whose new book—advance copies just out!—paints quite a lurid portrait of this presidency). And Rex Tillerson, secretary of state, was fired by tweet on a Tuesday.

Resignations include Keith Schiller, the president’s longtime bodyguard (don’t feel too bad, he is still on the RNC payroll); chief economic adviser Gary Cohn; and just this past Tuesday, Homeland Security adviser Tom Bossert, who packed up and hit the road.

Hello, Wednesdays! Say goodbye to a slew of insiders—VA head David Shulkin was sacked on a Wednesday, as was Communications Director for the White House Office of Public Liaison Omarosa Manigault Newman. The notorious spouse-abuser White House aide Rob Porter was also booted out on a Wednesday, the same day of the week that his rumored former paramour, Communications Director Hope Hicks, bid adieu to her Oval Office friends. Only two names to share with you for Thursdays, but they are choice: National security adviser H.R. McMaster got the heave-ho on a Thursday; and the president’s attorney John Dowd waved bye-bye on a Thursday as well.

And here we are back on to Friday! Could this be the very Friday that the president does what he has been clearly dying to do since Mueller took over the Russia investigation? He certainly appears to be in quite a mood this morning, tweeting, among other things, that Comey, Mueller’s predecessor, is a “weak and untruthful slimeball . . .”

Keep your eye on those Google Alerts! Only time and the calendar will tell.Shares of Tesla (TSLA) popped on Friday after CEO Elon Musk once again took to Twitter (TWTR) to boast, this time about the electric car maker's second half outlook. But at this point, it seems somewhat strange that so many investors still react positively to anything Musk says.

Shares of Tesla TSLA popped on Friday after CEO Elon Musk once again took to Twitter TWTR to boast, this time about the electric car maker’s second half outlook. But at this point, it seems somewhat strange that so many investors still react positively to anything Musk says.

In his latest Twitter proclamation, Musk responded to a recent article that simply noted that Tesla will have to raise more money this year.

The Economist used to be boring, but smart with a wicked dry wit. Now it’s just boring (sigh). Tesla will be profitable & cash flow+ in Q3 & Q4, so obv no need to raise money. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) April 13, 2018

Tesla’s CEO pushed back on The Economist’s article saying that his company does not need to raise any money this year. Musk also wrote that Tesla would be profitable in the second half of this year.

With no other major Tesla-related news to speak of, and markets relatively flat, Tesla’s stock price likely climbed over 2% based mostly on this tweet. It is understandable that Musk wants to defend his company, but investors should consider taking a look at some of Tesla’s current fundamentals and projections in favor of giving too much credence to Musk’s tweets—with his track record of overpromising.

Model 3

Tesla’s mass-market Model 3 production setbacks have been well known for some time. And production issues make sense for a company that is trying to revolutionize the automobile industry. But a $50 billion company and its CEO should perhaps be more adept at forecasting these issues, and therefore providing more realistic guidance.

A recent CBS News interview helped illuminate Tesla’s Model 3 production woes and Musk’s inability to provide investors with accurate Model 3 guidance. One exchange with CBS’ Gayle King, while on tour of a Tesla factory, was particularly important.

“You started saying, 'We'll do 5,000 a week.' Then, okay, that didn't work out, 'We'll do 2,500 a week.' And now it's a little over 2,000 a week. Does that trouble you?" King asked. To which Musk replied, “Yeah. No, that's true….I need to figure out how to be better….And then we can be better at meeting goals."

Analysts at Jefferies believe that Tesla most likely fell short of its own first quarter Model 3 production goals. It also seems that investors have become more concerned that Tesla hasn’t lived up to its own expectations, with its stock price down roughly 4% over the last year.

However, none of this means that Musk’s latest tweet is untrue. So let’s take a look to see if our current estimates support the CEO’s claims of second half profitability.

Looking Ahead

Tesla’s first quarter 2018 revenues are projected to climb by 20.5% to hit $3.25 billion, based on our current Zacks Consensus Estimates. Tesla’s full-year 2018 sales are expected to soar nearly 60% to hit $18.77 billion.

Meanwhile, Tesla is projected to post an adjusted loss of $3.15 per share in Q1 and a full-year adjusted loss of $7.05 per share. Clearly, our current 2018 consensus estimates don’t match Musk’s tweet.

With that said, investors should note that Tesla is expected to report adjusted full-year earnings of $1.63 per share in 2019. So maybe Musk is just a year off.

But with more established automakers like Ford F, General Motors GM, and Volkswagen VLKAY ready to begin mass-market electric vehicle production, Musk’s words need to turn into actions sooner than later.

Will You Make a Fortune on the Shift to Electric Cars?

Here's another stock idea to consider. Much like petroleum 150 years ago, lithium power may soon shake the world, creating millionaires and reshaping geo-politics. Soon electric vehicles (EVs) may be cheaper than gas guzzlers. Some are already reaching 265 miles on a single charge.



With battery prices plummeting and charging stations set to multiply, one company stands out as the #1 stock to buy according to Zacks research.



It's not the one you think.



See This Ticker Free >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Ford Motor Company (F) : Free Stock Analysis Report



General Motors Company (GM) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Tesla, Inc. (TSLA) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Volkswagen AG (VLKAY) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchFILE PHOTO: A Tesla dealership is seen in West Drayton, just outside London, Britain, February 7, 2018. REUTERS/Hannah McKay/File Photo

By Sonam Rai and David Shepardson

(Reuters) - Tesla Inc (TSLA.O) will be profitable in the third and fourth quarters of this year and will not have to raise any money from investors, billionaire Chief Executive Elon Musk said on Friday, driving shares in the electric carmaker higher.

Tesla has already sought this month to play down widespread Wall Street speculation that it would need to return to capital markets this year to raise more funds for the money-losing company as it ramps up production of the Model 3 sedan seen as crucial to its long-term profitability.

The Silicon Valley car maker, which has consistently fallen short of promised production targets and is fighting bad publicity over a fatal crash of a car using its Autopilot system, said 10 days ago it would have positive cash flow from the third quarter.

Musk went further on Friday in a tweeted response to a story in The Economist which cited estimates Tesla would need $2.5 billion to $3 billion this year in additional funding.





"The Economist used to be boring, but smart with a wicked dry wit. Now it's just boring (sigh). Tesla will be profitable & cash flow+ in Q3 & Q4, so obv no need to raise money," Musk wrote.

Tesla shares, which have gained nearly 10 percent since disclosing the Model 3 production numbers on April 3, were up 1.8 percent in afternoon trading on Wall Street.

Musk's claim about profit and cash flow hinges on a rapid rise in production of the Model 3 sedan, Tesla's latest vehicle to have experienced production delays. That has postponed revenue from reaching Tesla's bottom line from cars being delivered to customers.

An unprecedented level of robots used in the Model 3's final assembly, in a break with automotive manufacturing norms, has added complexity and delays, which Musk acknowledged on Friday.

"Excessive automation at Tesla was a mistake," Musk tweeted. To be precise, my mistake. Humans are underrated."

Thomson Reuters consensus of analyst estimates predicts Tesla's free cash flow to be negative well into 2019, thanks in part to heavy investments. Only one of 19 analysts covering the stock see positive adjusted earnings per share in the third quarter, with that number growing to four for the fourth quarter.

Wall Street brokerage Jefferies, which provided the funding estimate cited by The Economist, said in a note last week it expects refinancing risk to remain high for Tesla until it can consistently produce 10,000 Model 3s a week.

The company again missed its own 2,500 target for weekly production at the end of the first quarter, and analysts and fund managers doubt Tesla's ability to keep production growing to a promised 5,000 Model 3s per week in three months time.

Musk in July said Tesla was going through "manufacturing hell" in ramping up production of the Model 3.

He told "CBS News" in an interview that aired Friday the company "got complacent" and "put too much new technology into the Model 3 all at once." Part of the interview took place in a Tesla Model 3 Musk was driving with Autopilot activated at times.

Musk told CBS Tesla is currently producing 2,000 Model 3 cars a week.

Last month, Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Tesla’s credit rating to B3 from B2, reflecting "the significant shortfall in the production rate of the company’s Model 3."

Moody's added that its negative outlook for Tesla "reflects the likelihood that Tesla will have to undertake a large, near-term capital raise in order to refund maturing obligations and avoid a liquidity shortfall."

On Thursday, the National Transportation Safety Board said that after a series of public disclosures by Tesla it had taken the unusual step of revoking Tesla's status as a formal party to its investigation of a March 23 crash in California that killed a driver who was using Autopilot. The NTSB is also investigating two other Tesla crashes.

Tesla lashed out at the NTSB and said it planned to complain to Congress.

Asked by CBS if there was a defect with Autopilot, Musk responded: "The system worked as described, which is that it is a hands-on system. It is not a self-driving system."

At one point during the interview, Musk did not have his hands on the wheel and the car beeped at him to retake the wheel.





(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru and David Shepardson in Washington; additional reporting by Dan Burns and Alexandria Sage; editing by Phil Berlowitz)The strong post-election bull run in Bank of America Corp (NYSE:BAC) stock has hit some turbulence. BAC stock has pulled back almost 8% from March highs, even with a recent bounce. And since early February, BAC stock has seen increased volatility and choppy trading.

For the most part, the recent trading looks like short-term noise. I argued a month ago that the long-term case for BAC stock remained intact. That’s still the case heading into Bank of America’s first-quarter report on Monday.

Bank of America Corp (BAC) Stock Looks Like a Buy Ahead of Earnings More

Source: Shutterstock

Rather, the pullback toward $30 looks like it’s giving investors another opportunity to get into BAC at an attractive price. And, with earnings season likely to remind investors of the bull case here, I expect Monday’s report to be an upside catalyst for Bank of America stock.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

A Choppy Market

Big bank stocks like BAC tend to track the market as a whole, so the volatility of the past few weeks makes some sense. Broad markets have been choppy and more volatile; Bank of America stock has been the same.

But, the fears driving recent volatility are mostly forward-looking — and external. Whether it’s concerns about a trade war or higher Treasury yields, investors, for the most, part aren’t worried about specific stocks. They’re worried about the market as a whole.

The good news is that earnings season is on the way — and it starts with the big banks. Citigroup Inc (NYSE:C), Wells Fargo & Co (NYSE:WFC) and JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) all report on Friday. BofA follows on Monday, and those earnings should contain quite a bit of good news for the sector as a whole and for Bank of America in particular.





Why Earnings Should Help BAC Stock

After all, unemployment is exceedingly low, and wages are creeping up. Both of those factors should keep default rates low. Interest rates are finally rising. While that has rattled the markets a bit, it’s undoubtedly good news for bank stocks, which will benefit from higher net interest margins. Tax reform will help earnings in 2018, which could lead to more economic activity and more revenue.

For Bank of America, the news should be particularly good. Volatility in the markets actually could be a good thing for trading revenue in the Merrill Lynch unit, although the benefits might not be seen until Q2. BofA’s credit metrics already were in good shape, which give it room to increase lending going forward. Tax reform means EPS should be very strong in the quarter: analysts are looking for 44% growth in the quarter, and 36% for the year.

The good news surrounding Bank of America stock largely has been forgotten over the past couple of months. But, I expect Monday’s report will change that and send BAC stock higher.

Bank of America Stock Looks Strong Long-Term, Too

The good news for Bank of America stock is that the bull case here isn’t just short-term. Back near $30, BAC trades at less than 11x 2019 consensus EPS. That’s a multiple that suggests either growth will decelerate sharply and quickly, and/or the economy is going to turn south.

I don’t believe either will be the case. And, with Bank of America likely to ramp up its dividend again later this year, a cheap valuation, and a diversified asset base, I think it’s the best play in the sector. JPM has a strong case, as I wrote last month, and even Goldman Sachs Group Inc (NYSE:GS) looks attractive as well.

But, Bank of America has plenty of room for improvement at Merrill Lynch, in both trading revenue and on the fixed-income side. The credit card business has room for improvement as well. There’s organic growth potential in addition to the coming tailwinds from higher interest rates and a strong economy.

There’s simply a lot to like here. At less than 11x forward EPS, that includes the price, too. A solid earnings report from Bank of America will re-establish the bull case and, in the least, should send the stock past its recent highs over the next few months.

As of this writing, Vince Martin did not hold a positions in any of the aforementioned securities.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Bank of America Corp (BAC) Stock Looks Like a Buy Ahead of Earnings appeared first on InvestorPlace.Key bank earnings that are scheduled for release this week and next will likely to provide a better understanding of the sector’s near-term prospects. At present, the central short-term concern for banks will be one-time U.S. tax charges, which may affect their full-year profits. However, a lower U.S. corporate tax rate is expected to favor profitability in the long run.

Encouraging economic environment, a low tax rate and high Fed rate hike prospects have clearly shifted attention to the bank stocks, which will kick-start the first-quarter earnings season. In this context, Bank of America Corporation BAC and U.S. Bancorp USB which are scheduled to report on Apr 16 and Apr 18, respectively, assume greater significance. Both banks carry a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

Other major stocks reporting earnings from Apr 16 to Apr 20 include The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. GS and UnitedHealth Group Incorporated UNH.

Price Performance

Bank of America has gained 37.2% in the last one year and outperformed the broader industry that has moved up 22.3% over the same period. In comparison, U.S. Bancorp has not only underperformed the broader industry but also Bank of America, gaining only 2.5% over the same time frame.

Valuation

Compared with the S&P 500, the industry is clearly undervalued. This implies that the industry has upside potential for the near future. The industry has an average trailing 12-month P/B ratio – which is the best multiple for valuing banks because of large variations in their earnings results from one quarter to the next – of 1.77, which is below the S&P 500’s average of 3.75. Hence, it might be a good idea to focus on stocks belonging to this particular industry.

Coming to the two stocks under consideration, with a P/B ratio of 1.91 U.S. Bancorp is undervalued than the S&P 500 but overvalued than the industry. However, Bank of America with a P/B ratio of 1.28 is less pricey compared to both the S&P 500 and the industry.

Story ContinuesWith JPMorgan Chase (JPM) and Citigroup (C) reporting better-than-expected earnings results this morning, fellow commercial and investment banking giant Bank of America (BAC) will hope to continue the positive trend with its own earnings announcement on Monday.

With JPMorgan Chase JPM and Citigroup C reporting better-than-expected earnings results this morning, fellow commercial and investment banking giant Bank of America BAC will hope to continue the positive trend with its own earnings announcement on Monday. Earnings season is just heating up, and these financial bellwethers should give investors a great read on the economy.

The big story for both JPMorgan and Citi was increased revenue from equity trading, with the firms reporting revenue growth of 26% and 38%, respectively, in this segment. Overall, JPM notched total revenue growth of 12% and earnings growth of 44%, while Citi’s total revenue and earnings improved 3% and 24.4%, respectively.

So what should Bank of America investors expect? Let’s take a closer look!

Latest Outlook and Valuation

Based on our latest Zacks Consensus Estimates, we expect Bank of America to post earnings of $0.59 per share and total revenue of $22.91 billion. These results would represent year-over-year growth of 43.9% and 3.0%, respectively.

Heading into its report date, BAC is trading with a Forward P/E of 11.9, which is basically in line with the industry’s average of 12.0. Within the past year, the stock has traded as high as 16.8x forward 12-month earnings and as low as 11.3x. Its median earnings multiple over that time is 12.5. Investors might conclude that BAC shares are currently cheap compared to their valuation recently.

Earnings ESP Whispers

Investors will also want to anticipate the likelihood that Bank of America surprises investors with better-than-anticipated earnings results. For this, we turn to our Earnings ESP figure.

Zacks Earnings ESP (Expected Surprise Prediction) looks to find earnings surprises by focusing on the most recent analyst estimates. This is done because, generally speaking, when an analyst posts an estimate right before an earnings release, it means that they have fresh information which could potentially be more accurate than what analysts thought about a company two or three months ago.

A positive Earnings ESP paired with a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better ranking helps us feel confident about the potential for an earnings beat. In fact, our 10-year backtest has revealed that this methodology has accurately produced a positive surprise 70% of the time.

Bank of America is currently holding a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) and an Earnings ESP of -0.4%. This is because the company’s Most Accurate Estimate for earnings sits at $0.58, meaning that the most recent analyst estimates have been lower than the consensus. In other words, our model is not conclusively calling for a beat.

Surprise History

Another important thing to consider ahead of Bank of America’s report is the company’s history of earnings surprises and the effect that these surprises have had on share prices. The company has met or surpassed earnings estimates in each of the trailing seven quarters, and the stock has responded well to these positive surprises.

We judge the price effect of these earnings beats by comparing the closing price of the stock two days before the report and two days after the report. Over the course of BAC’s recent streak, the stock has turned positive during this window six times.

Want more market analysis from this author? Make sure to follow @Ryan_McQueeney on Twitter!Saturday 100 % 64 ° 48 ° Partly cloudy with a high of 53 °F (11.7 °C). Winds variable at 2 to 11 mph (3.2 to 17.7 kph). Night - Breezy. Winds from WSW to W at 9 to 18 mph (14.5 to 29.0 kph). The overnight low will be 39 °F (3.9 °C).

Sunday 10 % 48 ° 36 ° Mostly cloudy today with a high of 48 °F (8.9 °C) and a low of 36 °F (2.2 °C).

Monday 0 % 48 ° 33 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 48 °F (8.9 °C) and a low of 33 °F (0.6 °C).

Tuesday 0 % 64 ° 33 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 64 °F (17.8 °C) and a low of 33 °F (0.6 °C).

Wednesday 0 % 69 ° 48 ° Mostly sunny today with a high of 69 °F (20.6 °C) and a low of 48 °F (8.9 °C).

Thursday 0 % 52 ° 40 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 52 °F (11.1 °C) and a low of 40 °F (4.4 °C).

Friday 5 % 57 ° 39 ° Partly cloudy today with a high of 57 °F (13.9 °C) and a low of 39 °F (3.9 °C).

Saturday 35 % 58 ° 45 ° Scattered showers today with a high of 58 °F (14.4 °C) and a low of 45 °F (7.2 °C). There is a 35% chance of precipitation.

Sunday 45 % 58 ° 49 ° Scattered showers today with a high of 58 °F (14.4 °C) and a low of 49 °F (9.4 °C). There is a 45% chance of precipitation.The NBA playoffs have just begun; here's how our writers think they will end



Joel Embiid won’t be cleared in time to return to the 76ers for the start of their playoff series with the Miami Heat, but that doesn’t mean he isn’t already calling his shots on social media as the 2018 NBA postseason gets underway.

As he is wont to do, Embiid took to Instagram earlier on Saturday with predictions of what this year’s Philadelphia team will face on the road to The Finals. If the big man is correct, the Heat, Celtics, Cavaliers and Warriors should be on alert.





Nothing ever seems like a coincidence when it comes to Embiid’s social media use. These aren’t just action shots he’s sharing. This is straight up tempting fate.

It’s also not that preposterous a thought.

If Embiid comes back completely healthy, the Sixers can match up with just about any team the Eastern Conference has to offer. Four of Yahoo! Sports NBA writers have Philadelphia making the second round, with two picking the Sixers to reach the conference final.

Sadly, that’s where Yahoo! experts believe the magic ends for Philly. None of them have Embiid’s squad in The Finals — though they agree with the center that the Warriors will be there representing the West.

This prediction could easily come back to bite Embiid — and it’ll certainly be seen as bulletin board material for fans and players — but this is also a guy who isn’t afraid to shoot his shot on and off the court.

If the Sixers end of losing to the Heat in the first round, of course, this will end up an all-time social media flop for Embiid.

Wearing a protective mask because of a recent facial injury, Philadelphia 76ers center Joel Embiid has given himself the moniker “Phantom of The Process”. (AP Photo)

– – – – – –

Blake Schuster is a writer for Ball Don’t Lie on Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at blakeschuster@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter!SportsPulse: Patrick Reed won his first green jacket in impressive fashion. However, as Trysta Krick explains, Reed has become somewhat of a villain in the golf world. Masters champion Patrick Reed says he doesn't believe in one company sponsoring a golfer entirely. At least that's his stance right now. But the decision to play with a mixed bag of clubs — and not commit to one big-name brand — could be costing him millions, experts say. The 27-year-old winner of six PGA Tour titles parted ways with Callaway Golf last year and told CNBC this week, "It's hard to believe that there is one company that makes 14 perfect golf clubs." Golf Channel equipment expert Matt Adams sees Reed in a "uniqueThe ties have been sorted out and the pre-Lottery draft order is now set. Here's a look at who might be the first 14 picks off the board in June.

1. Phoenix Suns: DeAndre Ayton, C, Arizona

Not quite the hometown kid but Ayton has been under the Suns' eyes all year. The best big and he could be the best overall prospect.

2. Memphis Grizzlies: Luka Doncic, G-F, Real Madrid

The video of the game-winner went viral and those who've seen him say he's as pro ready as any European prospect that's ever come into the league.

3. Atlanta Hawks: Marvin Bagley, F-C, Duke

Perhaps the best scorer and polished big, especially his ability to get on the offensive glass and decent footwork.

4. Dallas Mavericks: Mohamed Bamba, C, Texas

Wouldn't surprise to see Dallas go Bamba or bust here. A more gifted shot-blocker than Ayton but still very raw.

5. Orlando Magic: Wendell Carter, F-C, Duke

A skilled big man who was overshadowed by Bagley but was a more skilled big man away from the basket and perhaps possessing a higher floor.

6. Chicago Bulls: Jaren Jackson, F-C, Michigan State

Jackson's calling card would be his versatility, able to play everything from small forward to small-ball center, protecting the rim and shooting the three-ball at a respectable rate.

7. Sacramento Kings: Mikal Bridges, F, Villanova

A talented player but a safe choice as someone who can defend and shoot from long range. Perhaps the Kings inject a player from a winning program into their system.

8. Cleveland Cavaliers: Trae Young, G, Oklahoma

Young is the best shooter in the draft and has star potential, despite his slow finish to the season. With LeBron James' future in the air, they'll look for another torch bearer at that spot.

9. New York Knicks: Michael Porter Jr, F, Missouri

Very little was seen from Porter because of his back injury but assuming he's healthy, he could be a steal for the Knicks at this spot.

Story Continues

10. Philadelphia 76ers (via LA Lakers): Kevin Knox, F, Kentucky

Knox is certainly a candidate for the 76ers to allow to develop at his own pace as a 3-point shooting forward who can play both positions.

11. Charlotte Hornets: Miles Bridges, F, Michigan State

Bridges could be a steal here, being in the top 5 early in the college season. Powerfully-built and improving jump shooter, he can step in and play decent minutes immediately.

12. L.A. Clippers (via Detroit): Collin Sexton, G, Alabama

An aggressive, quick guard who's the best athlete at his position and has great potential as a defender with his length.

13. L.A. Clippers: Shai Gilgeous-Alexander, G, Kentucky

Next best player for a team with back-to-back picks after the Blake Griffin trade. Great size, can play multiple positions as he physically matures.

14. Denver Nuggets: Zhaire Smith, G-F, Texas Tech

A late riser on draft boards, an athlete and 3-point shooter, if he stays in the draft.Los Angeles (AFP) - Filipino boxing star Manny Pacquiao has split with long-time trainer Freddie Roach, the veteran ring guru confirmed on Friday.

In a brief statement, Roach said his 15-year association with former world champion Pacquiao had been terminated ahead of the 39-year-old fighter's upcoming world title fight with Lucas Matthyse.

Roach said he wished Pacquiao well for the future but admitted he had been "hurt" after learning of the Filipino's decision to axe him indirectly.

"Manny and I had a great run for 15 years -- longer than most marriages and certainly a rarity for boxing," Roach said. "I wouldn't trade any of it. Inside the boxing ring and the political ring, I wish Manny nothing but the best.

"I would be lying if I didn't say I wasn't hurt that he didn't contact me personally about his decision, but the great times we enjoyed together far outweigh that."

Roach was an ever-present in Pacquiao's corner during his rise to the pinnacle of his sport, helping mould the fighter into one of the best boxers in history.

Pacquiao is to fight Matthyse for the Argentine's WBA welterweight belt in Kuala Lumpur on July 15.

Pacquiao has not fought in the ring since being defeated on points by Australia's Jeff Horn in Brisbane in July, a loss that cost the Filipino star his WBO crown.

Matthysse, who has 39 wins including 36 by knockout against four defeats, won the vacant WBA belt after beating Thailand's Teerachai Sithmorseng in January.A mother of four is looking to pick up her pom-poms and make a return to cheerleading after 21 years away from the NFL, setting a new record.

Melanie Way, 42, was a cheerleader for the Dallas Cowboys in the 1990s, but will audition for a place in the Houston Texans’ franchise on Saturday (April 14).

She has been dieting while completing daily dance routines and exercises in a bid to be prepared for the try-outs. Way says part of her reason for auditioning is to show her children that age is just a number.

Trending: Sitting for a Long Time Is Bad for Your Brain

"Just because I'm 42 doesn't mean your life is over," Way told ABC. "I hope they see that and I hope they take that with them as they get older and they chase their dreams just like I am.”

Way would become the oldest cheerleader the Texans franchise has ever had, with Houston saying the oldest so far was in her mid-30s. But, for Way, it’s a case of when, rather than if.

"I've been telling myself, 'when I make the squad,'" she said. "When I make the team."

Don't miss: Gaza: Israeli Soldiers Injure Dozens As Border Protests Continue for Third Week

Dallas Cowboys Cheerleaders

Tom Pennington/Getty

Competition is fierce, though, with more than 1,000 cheerleaders expected to audition on Saturday and only 35 positions available.

Way certainly has experience on her side, having performed as part of the squad for the Dallas Cowboys, before stopping in 1997. She has fond memories of her time on the field and is determined to make a return.

"It was fun dancing on the field," Way said. "It's an amazing experience to be out there and the fans are cheering and you're dancing, you're just having a blast."



This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekThe Los Angeles Dodgers are one of several presumed contenders who probably wouldn’t mind a restart to the 2018 season. The defending National League champions are off to a disappointing start, falling to 4-8 on the season after losing 8-7 to the NL West-leading Arizona Diamondbacks on Friday night.

Along the way, not many bounces have gone the Dodgers way. That much is undeniable. And even when they do catch a break, they’ve often failed to take advantage.

[Still not too late to join a Yahoo Fantasy Baseball league]

No single inning highlighted their early season failures and frustration more than Friday’s eighth inning.

In it, the Dodgers benefited from a crazy bounce that resulted in the luckiest hit we might see all season. The hit kept a potential game-changing rally alive. Yet even with victory suddenly within their grasp, the Dodgers still walked away disappointed.

The Dodgers definitely battled in Friday’s game, cutting a six-run deficit to three with a three-run seventh. In the eighth, Los Angeles loaded the bases with one out. This was the moment they’ve been waiting for. One swing could turn the game around and possibly get them on track. Up stepped Chase Utley, who has provided many big hits in situations just like it.

Utley hit a grounder up the middle that seemed ticketed for center field off the bat. Then came the realization that Arizona’s defense was set up perfectly, with shortstop Nick Ahmad playing up the middle.

A sure hit then looked like a sure double play. That was, until second base intervened.

Utley’s grounder could not have been placed any better. After striking the base, the ball shot into left field, going straight through the space vacated by Ahmad. Two runs scored on the play, and the Dodgers were set up for a huge inning with two runners on and still only one out.

Story Continues

The Dodgers fell to 4-8 this season despite Chase Utley’s most fortunate two-run single. (AP)

Of course, you already know how this ends. Leadoff man Chris Taylor, who homered and singled in a run earlier in the game, hit into a tailor made 6-4-3 double play to end the threat. The Dodgers wasted this opportunity, and then stranded the tying run in the ninth inning as well.

So far the Dodgers just haven’t been able to put together a complete game. When the pitching shows up, the offense doesn’t. And vice versa.

The Dodgers lost, 8-7, to Arizona. They’re 4-8. Kenta Maeda didn’t have it. The Dodgers have lost three of their four highest-scoring games this season. — Pedro Moura (@pedromoura) April 14, 2018





When it’s going like that, even the biggest breaks don’t amount to much.

The good news for Dodgers fans is that things will definitely get better for their beloved squad. Probably sooner than later. But the game of baseball will never make it easy for them or anyone else.

– – – – – –

Mark Townsend is a writer for Yahoo Sports Have a tip? Email him at bigleaguestew@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

After scrapping Kaepernick visit, Seahawks sign a QB

Report: Girl targeted for beaning by youth baseball coaches

Barack, Michelle Obama’s niece picked in WNBA draft

OKC broadcaster under fire for ‘offensive’ remark

After becoming the talk of football Thursday for the quarterback they didn’t sign, the Seattle Seahawks did add a quarterback before the week was done.

The Seahawks, who passed on Colin Kaepernick after he wouldn’t promise to not kneel for the national anthem, signed Stephen Morris according to ESPN’s Adam Schefter and others. Unless you’re a big University of Miami (Fla.) football fan you might not be familiar with Morris, and for good reason. Morris has been bouncing around the NFL since 2014 and has never appeared in a game. Morris regular-season appearances: Zero. Kaepernick Super Bowl starts: One.

The Seahawks needed a backup after cutting Trevone Boykin over a domestic violence incident. Before the domestic violence accusation, Boykin was with the Seahawks two seasons despite separate arrests on drug charges and resisting arrest after a bar fight that got him suspended from TCU’s bowl game. Kaepernick has no known arrests.

The Seahawks, who once drafted defensive end Frank Clark after he was arrested for a domestic violence accusation and kept Clark after he injured a teammate in a practice fight, needed a backup quarterback so they contacted Kaepernick about a workout. The workout was scrapped over Kaepernick’s refusal to promise he wouldn’t kneel for the national anthem, according to Yahoo Sports’ Charles Robinson and other reports. Robinson said a meeting could happen at a later date, but in the meantime the Seahawks needed someone other than Russell Wilson at quarterback. So Morris was brought in.

Even though the Seahawks will surely bring in another quarterback after Morris, it’s still another example of quarterbacks with far fewer credentials than Kaepernick being signed while Kaepernick waits for another job. Safety Eric Reid, who kneeled with Kaepernick and has had one known free-agent visit this offseason (which now looks like a publicity stunt by the Bengals, whose owner made the visit about telling Reid he wouldn’t be allowed to kneel), waits as well. It’s easy to see why NFL players would be bothered by this. The hypocrisy is in plain view.

Story Continues

But the bottom line is Kaepernick continues to wait. Morris is far from the first quarterback with a lesser résumé than Kaepernick to be signed. He won’t be the last, either.

Colin Kaepernick remains unsigned, though the Seahawks did sign a backup quarterback to Russell Wilson. (AP)

– – – – – – –

Frank Schwab is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at shutdown.corner@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter!



More from Yahoo Sports:

• Kevin Iole: VanZant’s brave rape admission met with hate

• Report: Girl targeted for beaning by youth baseball coaches

• Barack, Michelle Obama’s niece picked in WNBA draft

• OKC broadcaster under fire for ‘offensive’ remark

At this point, you probably feel like you’re looking at the same mock drafts over and over. So we’re going to try something different. With this mock draft, we’re going to select players for teams that we have not mocked to them previously. This includes teams with two first-round picks. So you can go ahead and count out Saquon Barkley to the Browns at No. 1, since he’s been a popular pick for them at No. 4. Whether or not any of these picks actually land is a different story, but the NFL Draft is hard to predict. It’s even harder to guess any trades that will happen, which can cause a huge ripple effect depending on the move. So in that case, we’re not including two of Dan Kadar’s mock draftsKyle Busch: All-Star race rules 'not what I signed up for' Kyle Busch talks with a team member during a practice session for the NASCAR Cup series auto race in Fort Worth, Texas, Saturday, April 7, 2018. (AP Photo/Randy Holt)

BRISTOL, Tenn. (AP) -- Kyle Busch is growing tired of stock car racing's governing body trying to manufacture tighter competition in the annual All-Star race at the expense of the Cup Series' heavy hitters.

''That's not what I signed up to be a NASCAR driver for is to scrunch the field up and take the advantage away from those guys that are fast,'' said Busch, last year's All-Star race winner.

In its seemingly never-ending quest to make the All-Star race more competitive and create more passing opportunities, NASCAR announced this week it will test a different aerodynamic package at the May 19 event at Charlotte Motor Speedway by requiring cars to have restrictor plates.

Several recent All-Star races have featured one driver getting out in front of the field while running in clean air - and not being able to be caught.

The plates are used to choke horsepower and slow speeds, thus bunching up the crowd in an effort to make the race a little more exciting for fans.

That drew a groan from the often animated and outspoken Busch, who has 44 career Cup victories.

''I'm not sure that you can fabricate racing to being anything better than what exists, you know?'' said the 32-year-old Busch. ''People say how great it was back in the day, but you had two guys or three guys on the lead lap sometimes. Richard Petty would win races by two laps at places and now you have 25 cars on the lead lap and competition is as close as it's ever been. People are complaining about it that there is a lack of competition. I don't know what you expect to be competition - you want the last-place guy to be able to be the first-place guy. There's always going to be a last-place guy.''

The aero package was used at an Xfinity Series race at Indianapolis Motor Speedway last year. There were record numbers of leaders, lead changes and green flag passes for the lead.

Story Continues

In an attempt to replicate that for next month's All-Star race, each car will be fitted with aero ducts, a 6-inch-high spoiler with two 12-inch ears and a restrictor plate, among other modifications. Restrictor plates are used at Daytona and Talladega, the two biggest and fastest tracks on the schedule.

Ricky Stenhouse Jr. said he'll wait to offer an opinion until he sees how the restrictor-plate racing plays out at Charlotte.

''I think the racing will probably be a lot closer,'' Stenhouse said. ''I do think that when you reduce the speeds the handling isn't as big of an issue and so I think the racing will be probably a little more intense. We'll just have to see how the fans like it. I think that's the biggest thing we want to do is to make sure the fans enjoy our races.''

Busch also wants to see close racing.

But he doesn't want it to come at the expense of those who should be rewarded for the work they put in setting up their cars during the week.

''The fact of the matter is that we're trying to orchestrate something that doesn't quite exist,'' said Busch, who is looking for his second straight Cup win on Sunday at Bristol Motor Speedway after capturing the checkered flag last weekend at Texas.

Busch joked that you simply can't make everyone happy.

''Be miserable like me - and then nothing will surprise you,'' Busch said, drawing a laugh from the room full of reporters. ''I think if you wanted pink ice cream with white frosting on it, you would say, 'Man, I really wish I had white ice cream with pink frosting.' It's just everybody wants the opposite of what they see and what they get.''

---

More AP auto racing: https://racing.ap.orgYesterday, after Angels batting practice, a six-year-old kid asked Shohei Ohtani for his bat. Ohtani did what most players would do in that situation: he laughed, signed some autographs, but held on to his bat and then left.

But then a few minutes later he came back to where the kid was and handed him a bat. An official Shohei Ohtani model, with his name on it in Kanji. Ohtani later told an MLB.com reporter, through his interpreter, “Hopefully he can swing with that and become a good player one day, but I can’t be doing this all the time. I’ll run out of bats.”

Here’s the request:

“Can I get your bat?” Ohtani laughed, and then left the field after signing autographs. pic.twitter.com/deQFmXYOXg — Joon Lee (@iamjoonlee) April 12, 2018





Ohtani had at least one more bat in his bag, of course, and he used it to DH in last night’s game against the Royals. In the seventh inning the Angels broke the game wide open, thanks in part to Ohtani’s bases-clearing triple:

The season is 14-games old, yet Ohtani’s legend is already substantial and continues to grow.Yet another cheerleader has accused the NFL of discrimination.

The New York Times reports that Kristan Ware, a former cheerleader for the Miami Dolphins, has filed a complaint against both the team and the NFL with the Florida Commission on Human Relations.

Ware, who spent three seasons cheering for the team, said her Christian faith made her “a target of discipline, ridicule, harassment, and abuse.”

#miavsnyj #finsup A post shared by Kristan Ann (@kristan.ann) on Dec 18, 2016 at 9:02am PST





Ware’s complaint alleges that cheerleading director Dorie Grogan and other coaches treated her differently after she posted a photo of herself being baptized before the beginning of her third and final season with the Dolphins.

Ware, who for religious reasons plans to wait until marriage to have sex, said her virginity was also made fun of.

According to the Washington Post, Ware met with a cheerleading coach in April 2016 who wanted to “talk about your virginity.”

Ware claims she was told to stop speaking out about her virginity status and was chided for sharing the information in a conversation with other cheerleaders during a 2015 trip.

“As far as we are concerned, you have taken something that was once upon a time pure and beautiful and you’ve made it dirty,” Grogan allegedly told her.

Team choreographer Brooke Nix is said to have remarked, “I think it is still beautiful, but you need to stop talking about it.”

The discussion was followed by rehearsals for a fashion show in which Ware says Grogan was physically aggressive and asked Ware, who was wearing a bikini, to pose in a suggestive manner.

“After being exposed, and having my virginity [cast] in a negative way, I felt so vulnerable,” Ware told the Post. “It kind of crushed my spirit to change into a bikini after that comment was made. It took a piece of me.”

Story Continues

Ware also alleges that most religious references were removed from a blog post she wrote for the team. She chose not to try out for a fourth season after her complaints to human resources failed to stop the alleged abuse.





Ware’s lawyer, Sara Blackwell, who is also representing Bailey Davis in her complaint against the New Orleans Saints, noted that the alleged treatment of Ware is very different than that of NFL players, whose demonstrations of religious faith are welcome.

“Kristan requests the NFL, Dolphins, and all NFL teams immediately change their policies to be equal to both the players and the cheerleaders and to specifically stop all intimidation against the cheerleaders for maintaining and expressing their religious beliefs,” the complaint states.

Both the Dolphins and the NFL have issued statements responding to her charges.

“We are seriously committed to providing a positive work environment for everyone associated with the organization,” the Dolphins told the Times. “We hold every member of our organization to the same standards and do not discriminate as it relates to gender, race, and religious beliefs.”

“The NFL. and all NFL member clubs support fair employment practices,” NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy added. “Everyone who works in the NFL, including cheerleaders, has the right to work in a positive and respectful environment that is free from any and all forms of harassment and discrimination and fully complies with state and federal laws.

“Our office will work with our clubs in sharing best practices and employment-related processes that will support club cheerleading squads within an appropriate and supportive workplace.”

Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:

Cheerleaders say ‘groping and sexual harassment are part of the job’ — but they’re not the only ones

Male cheerleaders are coming to the NFL for the first time ever

There are crazy rules governing how NFL cheerleaders act, look, and weigh

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.



No preamble necessary for my latest mock draft. Let's get right into things, which are going to get crazy as teams move around the board in order to snatch their quarterback of the future in the 2018 NFL Draft. 1. Cleveland Browns A recent NFL Network poll revealed that 17 of 24 GMs asked the question consider Darnold the top quarterback in this class. Sure, the Browns might be one of the two teams that picked Josh Allen. But for now, with public opinion seemingly split on who the Browns will actually take, it feels safer to play the odds -- especially since I've had Darnold in this spot throughout the process. 2. Denver Broncos (via mock trade from NYG) With Darnold off the board, the GiantsTwo youth baseball coaches reportedly wanted to hit an 11-year-old girl in the head with a pitch. (Getty Images)

Two youth baseball coaches in New Hampshire are being investigated by their league after reportedly hatching a plan to bean an 11-year-old girl, according to the Fosters Daily Democrat.

The Oyster River Youth Association (ORYA) is looking into the situation after the girl’s father, Dan Klein, claimed some other coaches in the league warned him of the plan.

[Still not too late to join a Yahoo Fantasy Baseball league]

Klein claims two coaches discussed making one of their players hit his daughter in the head with a pitch in an attempt to get her to quit. She’s the only girl in the league.

Those comments were reportedly made during the league’s draft. Two other coaches at the draft were uncomfortable with the conversation, and relayed the information to Klein.

The league has opened an investigation into the comments after Klein emailed board members with his concerns. He did not contact police, though they are aware of the situation. Law enforcement has not decided whether to launch its own investigation into the matter, according to the Fosters Daily Democrat,

Klein did not recommend any specific punishment for the coaches who allegedly wanted to hit his daughter with a pitch. He stressed that he just wants to make sure the kids in the league are safe.

– – – – – – –

Chris Cwik is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at christophercwik@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter! Follow @Chris_Cwik

More from Yahoo Sports:

• MLB hands out punishment in Yanks-Red Sox brawl

• Woman refuses to sing anthem after stadium bans guns

• Four reasons why the Mets are off to a hot start

• Pedro Martinez like how Red Sox handled brawlTyson Fury said Anthony Joshua's best chance of landing anything is by throwing a handful of rice, insisting the world heavyweight champion stands no chance in a potential blockbuster fight.

Former champion Fury will make his long-awaited comeback against an unnamed opponent in Manchester on June 9, having not fought since sensationally beating Wladimir Klitschko for the WBA, IBF and WBO belts in November 2015.

With renewed hunger and motivation following his backdated two-year doping ban, Fury – who has won all 25 professional fights – is determined to reclaim his titles amid talk of a showdown with countryman Joshua.

Joshua – the IBF, WBO and WBA champion after a unanimous points victory over Joseph Parker last month – is in talks with WBC holder Deontay Wilder regarding a unification bout.

However, Fury dismissed the threat of rival Joshua as he talked up American heavyweight Wilder.

"I've described him many times. He's a big out dossier, a belt carrier for me," Fury told reporters. "By the time I get ready to fight, it's going to be an easy fight. No contest.

"He'll be looking for one punch all night. We all saw the Parker affair. Anybody who can move a little bit and throw a few faints, he struggles with. So I have a tip for him.

"Here's the headline boys. If he wants to land any punches on me, here's the tip. Get a handful of rice and throw it at me if he wants to land anything. That's the only way he'll ever land anything on me. Apart from that, no chance.

"I'd out box him for a few rounds then I'd knock him out. He's not the hardest man to hit. He's not the biggest man, he's a lot smaller than I am and I don't believe he holds the best shot either."

Fury added: "At the minute I think Deontay Wilder is on top of the pile. The reason is that he's dangerous until the last two seconds of a fight.

Story Continues

"As we saw against Ortiz, he was losing the fight all the way through and only needs to land one punch.

"Unlike AJ, he has the speed and agility to throw them anywhere. But again, he's a bit weak behind the whiskers and he's not the best boxer in the world. They're all very vulnerable and very beatable too."You already know the Kevin Durant contract news from earlier this week.

The 2017 Finals MVP is reportedly going to decline his player option for next season to re-sign a new deal with the Warriors.

Is he going to ink a long-term deal this time around?

"I don't know. To be honest -- I know a lot of guys say that and it's BS -- but I haven't thought about it once," Durant told Tim Kawakami and Marcus Thompson on the Warriors Plus/Minus Podcast. "I know I want to be here and I want to continue to keep growing as a player ... we'll see what happens this summer as far as the options that I have ... money has never been the sole reason why I made any decision.

"I just try to make a good basketball decision. Hopefully the organization does right by me as well. That stuff always has to align ... we'll talk about the details later."

In the summer of 2016, Durant signed a two-year deal with Golden State -- $26.54 million in 2016-17 and a player option worth $27.7 million in Year 2.

He opted out last summer, and eventually inked another two-year deal -- $25 million in 2017-18 (yes, he is making less this season than he did in his first year with the Warriors) and $26.25 million in 2018-19.

Durant could have demanded a four-year max contract that would have paid him about $34.7 million this year.

But he didn't, because he wanted to give Warriors ownership the ability to re-sign Andre Iguodala and Shaun Livingston.

Might he take another huge paycut this summer?

"$10 million? Would that be smart?" Durant asked Kawakami and Thompson. "I thought that at that time it was a good deal. But I can't -- that's not setting a good precedent for me.

"Now they're gonna start taking advantage of me. I know this a business, too, so I got business to handle as well."

It's going to be an interesting summer, but for now -- just enjoy Game 1 on Saturday against the Spurs...

Story Continues

Drew Shiller is the co-host of Warriors Outsiders. Follow him on Twitter @DrewShiller(Youtube/Sportsnet)

The National Hockey League’s Department of Player Safety has dropped the hammer on Nazem Kadri, and it might be heavier than the Toronto Maple Leafs can bear.

Kadri’s emotional split-second decision during the Maple Leafs’ 5-1 Game 1 loss to the Boston Bruins on Saturday has resulted in a three-game suspension, meaning the Maple Leafs centreman will miss a crucial Game 2 in Boston, followed by Games 3 and 4 in Toronto.

The suspension is a product of Kadri’s malicious third-period hit on Tommy Wingels, who was kneeling and facing the boards after throwing a check of his own, which appeared to target the head of Toronto’s Mitch Marner. The league did not hold back in punishing what it deemed to be Kadri’s intentional and retaliatory act.

So now comes the aftermath for a Toronto club that could ill-afford to lose the services of Kadri for any length of time, let alone three consecutive games after going down 1-0 and being thoroughly dominated by the Bruins in the series opener. His skills won’t easily be replaced.

So, how will the Maple Leafs shut down the big guns on the Bruins’ first line? How do they try to replace Kadri’s goal-scoring ability and his defensive play? How does the power play adjust in Kadri’s absence?

All of these questions will require adjustments on Toronto’s end that have to be made in a hurry.

As productive as Willy Nylander, James Van Riemsdyk and Auston Matthews have been in the offensive end this season, it’s Kadri — because of his multi-faced toolset — who is the one player Toronto could ill-afford to lose against a Boston club that boasts stalwarts like Patrice Bergeron and David Krejci down the middle.

As he’s done against Toronto’s opponents all year, Kadri was supposed to be tasked with shutting down the Bruins’ top unit of Bergeron, David Pastrnak and Patrice Bergeron — especially on home ice when the ever-important final change affords Mike Babcock the luxury of deploying Kadri head-to-head with Boston’s deadly trio. This makes the sting of losing a pesky centre for two critical home games a painful one for Toronto.

Story Continues

The ability for Babcock to match lines defensively will take a hit, and the team will have to find a way to replace Kadri’s expected production in the offensive end, too. Toronto’s third leading goal-scorer this season came into the playoffs fresh off his second consecutive 30-goal campaign, netting 32 for the second season in a row while ranking first on the Leafs, fourth in points (55), second in shooting percentage (15.2) and fifth in points-per-game (0.69) in 80 games this season.

He will be particularly missed with the man-advantage, as Kadri has carved himself a vital role on the Toronto’s top PP unit and finished the regular season leading the team with 12 power play goals. This is a heavy loss against a Bruins team that deployed the third-ranked penalty kill in the NHL this season.

A lot to figure out here for Babcock and the coaching staff, while Matthews and Tyler Bozak are going to have to pick up the bulk of the load in the scoring and defensive-matchup departments for Toronto to have a chance at surviving the next three games without its most important forward.

More Maple Leafs coverage on Yahoo Canada Sports:



