Yahoo News

At the Greenberg Law office in Brooklyn, framed advertisements reading “The Real Call Saul” hang on the walls between tongue-in-cheek posters for movies like “Devil’s Advocate.” A small, wiry-haired man sits at a desk with sheets of notes splayed out before him. “My name is Howard Greenberg,” he says. Greenberg is no one to mess with: He has garnered a reputation as one of Manhattan’s craziest – and most successful – defense lawyers, having represented roughly 4,000 defendants and produced an unusually high number of acquittals and dismissals in cases where such results were thought to be impossible.Yahoo News

At the Greenberg Law office in Brooklyn, framed advertisements reading “The Real Call Saul” hang on the walls between tongue-in-cheek posters for movies like “Devil’s Advocate.” A small, wiry-haired man sits at a desk with sheets of notes splayed out before him. “My name is Howard Greenberg,” he says. Greenberg is no one to mess with: He has garnered a reputation as one of Manhattan’s craziest – and most successful – defense lawyers, having represented roughly 4,000 defendants and produced an unusually high number of acquittals and dismissals in cases where such results were thought to be impossible.Yahoo News

At the Greenberg Law office in Brooklyn, framed advertisements reading “The Real Call Saul” hang on the walls between tongue-in-cheek posters for movies like “Devil’s Advocate.” A small, wiry-haired man sits at a desk with sheets of notes splayed out before him. “My name is Howard Greenberg,” he says. Greenberg is no one to mess with: He has garnered a reputation as one of Manhattan’s craziest – and most successful – defense lawyers, having represented roughly 4,000 defendants and produced an unusually high number of acquittals and dismissals in cases where such results were thought to be impossible.A government watchdog agency concluded that the Environmental Protection Agency violated federal law in spending more than $43,000 to install a private phone booth in EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s office, according to a report obtained by ABC News.

According to the Government Accountability Office, the EPA did not comply with the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act by spending more than $5,000 on the phone booth without notifying Congress.

PHOTO: Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt speaks during an interview with reporters at his office in Washington, July 10, 2017. (Yuri Gripas/Reuters) More

The EPA “was required to notify the appropriations committees of its proposed obligation,” the GAO wrote in the report. “By failing to provide such advance notice, EPA violated section 710” of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act.

The EPA spent more than $43,000 to install a "secure phone booth" in Pruitt's office last year, according to agency documents obtained by the Environmental Integrity Project, a non-partisan and non-profit watchdog group.

Pruitt told a congressional committee he needed the booth to make secure calls to the White House and discuss classified information, but he was unable to tell the lawmakers how often he would use it.

The agency previously declined to publicly provide specific details about the private phone booth and whether it technically meets the requirements of a SCIF — a facility used for secure communications to discuss classified information. The EPA already has at least one SCIF elsewhere in its headquarters.

The agency also found that the EPA violated the Antideficiency Act by spending more than the amount approved by Congress for office renovations.

“Because EPA did not comply with the notification requirement, the funds were not legally available at the time EPA incurred the obligation,” the GAO wrote in the report.

The agency concluded that the EPA should report the violations, which would require a report to the President and Congress, according to federal law.

ABC News has reached out to the EPA for a response.

PHOTO: Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt speaks during an interview with Reuters journalists in Washington, Jan. 9, 2018. (Kevin Lamarque/Reuters, FILE) More

The Government Accountability Office is an independent, nonpolitical government agency that investigates spending of taxpayer money, including complaints of improper spending.

Both the GAO and the EPA’s internal watchdog were asked by members of Congress to look into the cost of Pruitt’s “secure phone booth.”

The EPA internal watchdog put its inquiry on hold while the GAO investigated.

This is a developing story. Please refresh for details.Alex Modon knew the difficulties of getting a tech startup off the ground, but there was one complication he wasn’t prepared for: the U.S. immigration policy under President Trump.

Before they founded Omni Labs, Inc. in June 2015, Modon and his co-founders, Vikram Tiwari and Nishant Srivastava, had worked in the tech industry for a number of years and were well acquainted with the challenges of “startup life.”

But even in the competitive and crowded field of data-driven marketing, Omni, an automated ad data analysis platform for businesses, quickly emerged as a rising star. According to court filings, Omni’s customer base grew from five to 140 businesses in just eight months last year, and by September 2017, the largely self-funded startup already boasted a positive cash flow. Since then, Modon told Yahoo News, the San Francisco-based startup has continued to grow, both in customers and revenue.

“All the things that are supposed to be really hard are clicking and are actually going really well,” he said, but that just adds to the frustration caused by U.S. immigration policy. Though Omni was the collaborative brainchild of its three co-founders, only the U.S.-born Modon is now allowed to live and work in the country where the business is based. Last year, unable to obtain U.S. work visas for Tiwari or Srivastava, both citizens of India, Omni resorted to opening a secondary office in Vancouver — a costly endeavor that Modon said has presented a variety of logistical challenges.

Now the company finds itself in limbo amid the Trump administration’s effort to kill an Obama-era regulation that sought to grant a limited stay in the U.S. to certain qualifying entrepreneurs, like Modon’s co-founders.

The regulation, known as the International Entrepreneur Rule, was first proposed in 2016 after multiple attempts to pass legislation that would create a so-called startup visa had failed in Congress. Unlike many other countries, the U.S. does not offer any sort of visa or work permit specifically for foreign entrepreneurs looking to build new businesses here.

After months of consultation with legal experts, tech industry leaders, and the public, the final version of the International Entrepreneur Rule (IER) was published by Obama’s Department of Homeland Security just three days before Donald Trump was inaugurated.

It wasn’t totally clear what would happen to the rule under President Trump, said Doug Rand, former assistant director for entrepreneurship in the Obama White House, who helped craft the regulation.

“On the one hand, this administration hasn’t exactly championed making immigration easier. But on the other hand, what could be more ‘merit-based’ than the International Entrepreneur Rule?” Rand asked, referring to Trump’s repeated calls for “merit-based immigration,” including during his State of the Union address.

In fact, the Trump administration’s approach to this rule illustrates the clash between the pro-business and anti-immigrant values on which Trump campaigned for president.

The IER officially became a government regulation before Trump took office, but implementation was delayed until July 17, 2017, to give DHS’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services time to get the program up and running. On July 11, DHS and USCIS — which had since been placed under the leadership of immigration hardliners John Kelly and Frank Cissna, respectively — issued yet another rule “temporarily delaying the effective date of the International Entrepreneur Final Rule” from July 17, 2017 to March 14, 2018.” Despite the description of the delay as temporary, the announcement made clear that DHS ultimately intended to revoke the rule and planned to use this postponement to do so.

Entrepreneurs who’d been waiting to submit their applications through the IER since January suddenly saw their plans evaporate. In September, Omni, along with a handful of other startups and individual entrepreneurs joined the National Venture Capital Association (NVCA) in a lawsuit against DHS challenging the legality of the delay — and won. On Dec. 1, 2017, a U.S. District court judge in Washington, D.C., ordered that the delay be vacated and that DHS finally begin accepting applications for parole under the International Entrepreneur Rule.

“In our history, we’ve never sued the federal government before,” said Jeff Farrah, vice president of government affairs for the NVCA. But their victory in court was only partial.

Before the judge had even issued his ruling, DHS announced its intention to formally rescind the IER as part of the Trump Administration’s Unified Regulatory Agenda. A proposed rule titled “Rescission of the International Entrepreneur Rule” was then submitted to the Office of Management and Budget’s Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, where it has more or less languished since Nov. 17, 2017.

As a candidate, Trump promised to parlay his lifetime of business experience into making “great deals” that would create jobs and bolster the economy. But his hardline views on immigration drew the ire of some in the business world, particularly the tech industry. Though his pledges to crack down on illegal immigration made the most noise, Trump made clear that he also intended to go after legal avenues of immigration — such as H-1B visas for highly skilled foreign workers, relied on heavily by U.S. tech companies.

Last year, when industry leaders from Silicon Valley descended on the White House for meetings with Trump and administration officials, one of the key issues on their agenda was immigration. According to reports from the meetings at the time, some Silicon valley execs who raised the issue of the IER said they felt somewhat assured that administration officials, including then economic adviser Gary Cohn, understood their concerns about the need to allow entrepreneurs and highly skilled foreigners to work in the U.S.

“It is very entrepreneurial, it is very free market-oriented, and so I think any Republican who is serious about business would have to take this rule seriously,” said Leon Rodriguez, the former director of USCIS under President Barack Obama who oversaw the creation of the International Entrepreneur Rule.

The version of the IER that was published in the waning hours of Obama’s presidency would grant parole (immigration language that essentially means permission to stay in the country) of up to two and a half years for foreign entrepreneurs who have significant ownership (at least 10 percent) and a central role in the operations of a startup that was founded in the United States within the last five years. Applicants must also show that their company has “substantial and demonstrated potential for rapid business growth and job creation” — meaning they must have either garnered investments of at least $250,000 from qualified American investors or received $100,000 worth of federal, state or local grants.

Entrepreneurs who met the qualifications for parole under the IER would be eligible to seek an extension of up to two and a half more years if they continued to show that they are providing a “significant public benefit” to the country. All told, the program stood to offer no more than a total of five years in the U.S. for the estimated 3,000 entrepreneurs who were expected to qualify.

“It’s a relatively modest rule because parole is a relatively modest benefit,” said Rodriguez. “It’s completely provisional. It can be revoked at any time; there’s no path to a green card, there’s no path to citizenship, so it’s a relatively modest thing that was being done.”

But not too modest for anti-immigration groups to target. For groups such as the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, Trump’s election presented a unique opportunity. Suddenly, views that were once largely eschewed by mainstream Republicans were being embraced by the president, who proceeded to install immigration hardliners in key roles at the White House as well as in the Department of Justice and Homeland Security.

“We do have allies all over the administration,” particularly at USCIS, said RJ Hauman, FAIR’s director of government affairs. “The International Entrepreneur Parole Rule is exactly the kind of unauthorized regulation that infringes on the primacy of Congress in setting immigration policy and threatens the integrity of our immigration laws, so there is little surprise that the Trump administration is moving to rescind it.”

Hauman was reiterating the argument made against the IER by the Immigration Reform Law Institute (IRLI), FAIR’s legal arm, as well as Republican senators Chuck Grassley, Michael Lee, David Vitter, and Jeff Sessions, now Trump’s attorney general.

Their view, articulated in letters submitted to DHS before and after the rule was finalized, is that the Obama administration was acting beyond its authority to grant parole by offering it to a specific category of immigrants — essentially creating a de-facto visa program, something only Congress has the authority to do. That was the same argument used against other Obama administration policies, such as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, or DACA.

In its official proposal to rescind the International Entrepreneur Rule, Trump’s Department of Homeland Security stated that it must review the IER in light of the new president’s executive order on Border Security and Immigration Enforcement, which explicitly requires the limited use of parole authority as part of the administration’s policy to “end the abuse of parole.”

“The charitable view of their objection was that this is a separation of powers issue, and parole authority is not a backdoor way for the executive branch to create a visa,” said Doug Rand. “This is a pretty arcane legalistic argument, though, and it’s hard to argue against the evidence that this policy would create a lot of good jobs for American workers.”

Supporters of the rule on both sides of the aisle cast doubt on the issue of parole authority as the basis for getting rid of the program, given the president’s stated commitment to job creation and merit-based immigration.

“There would be, in my mind, no particular reason to roll back this international entrepreneur rule,” said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office under George W. Bush, who also served on the Council of Economic Advisers for President George H.W. Bush. “It’s sensible; it gets the right kind of immigration into the United States — there’s no question about it.”

Holtz-Eakin, who is now president of the conservative-leaning American Action Forum, was one of 1,470 Republican and Democratic economists who sent an open letter to Trump and congressional leaders last April, expressing their support for immigration as key source of U.S. economic advantage.

“They’re a tremendous source of dynamic growth potential,” Holtz-Eakin said of immigrants. He said the “general Trump administration aversion to immigration” was the likely motivation for rescinding the IER.

“They have the clear view that, somehow, [immigration] is harmful to the United States and its economy and I just don’t think that’s true,” he said. “While it might be politically popular to run against immigrants, I don’t think it’s in the long-run interest of the U.S. in any way.”

Paul Hughes, an attorney at Mayer-Brown who provided pro-bono representation to Omni and other startups in their lawsuit against DHS, said he too found it difficult to understand the administration’s resistance to a program that “would seem to be the definition of merit-based immigration.”

Groups like FAIR and Numbers USA, another organization that seeks to reduce both illegal and legal immigration to U.S., have long been among the more vocal advocates of a merit-based immigration system.

“We ought to look objectively at what the needs of our society and our economy are and find the people who best meet those needs,” said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for FAIR U.S.

Rosemary Jenks, director of government relations at Numbers USA, added that the opposition to the IER has less to do with the substance of the rule and who it would benefit than the way it was created.

But while she insisted that the “biggest problem we have is that Congress, not the administration, creates immigration laws,” ultimately, Jenks said, “what we do want to do is reduce the overall numbers of immigrants coming in.”

“If Congress is going to create a program for entrepreneurs, they need to take those visas from somewhere else and reduce the overall numbers,” she said. “We’re not in the business of advocating for additional categories of immigrants.”

Jenks said Numbers USA, like FAIR, has seen new opportunities for influence under President Trump, pointing to proposals from the White House and members of Congress to eliminate things like “chain migration” and the diversity visa lottery program as evidence that their position on reducing immigration numbers is being embraced by key figures in the federal government.

“At least that conversation is happening, which it wasn’t before President Trump took office,” she said.

Both Jenks and Hauman said they’re confident that the Trump administration will follow through on its plan to rescind the International Entrepreneur Rule. At the same time, the NVCA’s Jeff Farrah said his own meetings and conversations with members of the administration have left him hopeful, at least, about the rule’s future.

“The message that IER will help grow the economy and build new startups in places off the coast that are desperately in need of new job creation has certainly resonated with some individuals within the administration,” said Farrah. “I think there are people who look at this as being very much in line with the president’s goal of trying to push for new economic opportunities in places that have felt left behind over the years.”

Though, as Farrah noted, “currently the rule is in place; it’s the law of the land,” the uncertainty surrounding the program’s future has left those who submitted applications in an uncomfortable holding pattern.

Carter Langston, deputy chief of media relations for USCIS, told Yahoo News that so far, the agency “has received approximately 10 applications for the IER program, but has not yet issued any final decisions” and could not say when applicants could expect to receive a response.

A disclaimer at the top of the International Entrepreneur Rule page of the USCIS website makes clear that, while DHS is implementing the program in compliance with the December court ruling, the agency “is also in the final stages of publishing a notice of proposed rulemaking seeking to remove the IER.”

Asked whether this warning, displayed prominently above information about applying for the program — which costs $1,200, plus an $85 biometric services fee — is intended to discourage prospective applicants, Langston stated that “the information on our website is to inform potential IER applicants that DHS has announced plans to rescind the rule through the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking process.”

Omni is among the startups waiting anxiously for a response to their application.

In the months since their lawsuit was filed last September, the company’s leadership has dwindled from three co-founders to two, with Srivastava returning home to India and pursue a more stable job opportunity there. Tiwari, meanwhile, remains based in Vancouver — a fact that, Modon argues, has stymied the company’s ability to expand. Omni now has a total of eight employees, most of them in San Francisco. “It’s mainly just Vik in Vancouver,” said Modon.

“There’s a ton of benefits that you get from just being in one consolidated environment. I think [that’s] especially true in the startup stage,” said Modon. “We’re certainly slower to make more strategic decisions, [and] we haven’t had the ability to hire nearly as well here because we don’t have as much resources the management side.”

Alex Modon, left, and Vikram Tiwari, co-founders of Omni Labs, Inc., on April 13, 2018, in San Francisco. (Photo: Eric Kayne for Yahoo News) More

Modon and Tiwari’s long-distance partnership has also created a roadblock to fundraising, as networking and physical introductions are crucial to soliciting investments.

While San Francisco is the ideal home for Omni, Modon said he and Tiwari have not ruled out the possibility of moving their operations entirely to Canada if necessary.

“We’d love to do it here, but I think, ultimately, when it comes down to it, a company is just a collection of a few people,” he said. “You kind of move where you need to make that happen.”

An accomplished software developer and certified technology expert on Google’s Cloud platforms, Tiwari leads various community developer groups and is regularly invited to speak at tech conferences across the U.S., such as the Windy City Devfest hosted by Google in Chicago this February and another coming up in Raleigh, North Carolina in October.

In addition to the initial success of Omni, Tiwari figured that his expertise and demonstrated qualifications would make the immigration aspect of building a startup in the U.S. “a really easy process.”

Tiwari said “it’s frustrating to understand why” it’s been so hard to get permission to live and work in the same country as the company he created, especially since “everything is based upon merit.”

“What else can we do?” he asked.

_____

Read more from Yahoo News:

Trump’s incoherent, dangerous policy on Syria, as laid out in tweets

Estonia’s president says Trump gets it about Russia

Paul Ryan, lame duck: What does the future hold for him?

Photos: The World Press Photo of the Year 2018 goes to Venezuelan photographer Ronaldo SchemidtFormer FBI director James Comey revealed Sunday night that he was advised by his chief counsel that President Trump could wind up a target of the bureau’s investigation into suspected links between Trump campaign operatives and the Kremlin. That fact, Comey said, was one reason he refused the president’s repeated requests that he publicly clear him of any wrongdoing in the probe.

Comey’s comments came during a wide-ranging interview in which the former FBI chief, who had long prided himself on being above the political fray, unloaded on the president who fired him in unusually personal and caustic terms, describing Trump as a congenital liar who was “morally unfit” to serve in the White House.

In perhaps his most striking remarks, Comey even appeared to call on the American people to vote Trump out of office.

When asked by ABC anchor George Stephanapoulos if President Trump should be impeached, Comey replied: “I think impeaching and removing Donald Trump from office would let the American people off the hook and have something happen indirectly that I believe they are duty bound to do directly. People in this county need to stand up and go to the voting booth and vote their values.”

Comey’s strong language — unprecedented for a former FBI director — could be seen in part as a response to the president’s relentless attacks on him. In just the last few days, as Comey’s about-to-be released book, “A Higher Loyalty,” has begun getting media attention, President Trump has tweeted repeatedly about him, calling Comey a “slimeball,” a “liar” and a “leaker.”

The war of words aside, Comey’s interview was perhaps more significant for shedding new light on the thinking within the FBI about the president’s potential liability in the Russia probe.

When Comey originally told Trump that he was not personally the target of the FBI probe — information that he volunteered at a meeting at Trump Tower on Jan. 6, 2017 — he did so against the advice of his chief lawyer.

President Trump, with Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy, left, greets FBI Director James Comey at a reception on Jan. 22, 2017. (Photo: Joshua Roberts/Reuters) More

“The FBI general counsel was concerned about me in the first instance telling then President-elect Trump he wasn’t under investigation,” Comey said, according to a transcript of the full interview, only portions of which were aired on the Sunday night broadcast. “It — it was— potentially misleading and also would create a duty to correct that. And there was a challenge also with, so what’s the limiting principle? If they ask, ‘Is the vice president under investigation,’ do you answer that?”

Comey described how, nevertheless, Trump repeatedly pushed him to make a public declaration that he was not being investigated by the FBI. Even though he had already privately told congressional committees that Trump was not a target, Comey resisted doing so publicly — in part, he suggested, because of the advice he got from his general counsel. (That general counsel, James Baker, has since been removed from that position.)

“So he [the president] was calling me to tell me how frustrating he found that and it was getting in the way of his ability to make deals for the country,” Comey said. “And he wanted to lift the cloud, he called it a cloud. And so wanted me to get out that he wasn’t under investigation.”

But this time, Comey had become convinced that Trump himself might be engaging in obstruction of justice, especially after the president asked him at one meeting that he “hopes” the FBI could drop its investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. Comey documented that request — which he said he took as “direction” — in one of several memos he wrote to leave a record of his communications with Trump.

“What part of you is thinking also, ‘I am collecting evidence on the president’?” Stephanopoulos asked Comey.Barbara Bush is “in great spirits” in the wake of a formal announcement that she’ll no longer seek medical treatment despite her “failing health.”

During an interview with NBC News’ Today on Monday, the former first lady’s granddaughter Jenna Bush Hager got emotional speaking about the 92-year-old.

“We are grateful for her,” said Jenna. “She the best grandma anybody could have ever had — or have.”

Jenna also revealed that she and her twin sister Barbara Pierce Bush spoke to the former first lady on Sunday night, sharing, “She is in great spirits and she’s a fighter. She’s an enforcer.”

“She’s in great spirits, and she’s a fighter.” @JennaBushHager updates us on her grandma, Barbara Bush pic.twitter.com/oIsWOYXAXq — TODAY (@TODAYshow) April 16, 2018

“She reminded me not to believe everything you read,” added Jenna. “We’re grateful for her for everybody’s prayers and thoughts and just know the world is better because she’s in it.”

RELATED: From Gammy Barbara to Little Poppy: See 90 Years of Bush Women in One Gorgeous Photo

“I think the fact that they’re together in this and he still says, ‘I love you Barbie,’ every night is pretty remarkable.” @JennaBushHager on her grandparents pic.twitter.com/urpWNRvMsZ — TODAY (@TODAYshow) April 16, 2018

RELATED VIDEO: Jenna and Barbara Bush Share The Books That Changed Their Lives

Jenna said on Today that her grandmother is “with my grandpa [former President George H.W. Bush], the man she’s loved for over 73 years and they are surrounded by family.”

“But I think fact they are together in this and he still says ‘I love you Barbie’ every night is pretty remarkable.”

In a statement from the office of former president on Sunday, a spokesperson said that “following a recent series of hospitalizations, and after consulting her family and doctors, Mrs. Bush, now age 92, has decided not to seek additional medical treatment and will instead focus on comfort care.”

Statement by the Office of George H. W. Bush on the health of former First Lady Barbara Bush. pic.twitter.com/4csUS6IRKZ — Jim McGrath (@jgm41) April 15, 2018

The statement continued, “It will not surprise those who know her that Barbara Bush has been a rock in the face of her failing health, worrying not for herself — thanks to her abiding faith — but for others. She is surrounded by a family she adores, and appreciates the many kind messages and especially the prayers she is receiving.”By Jack Stubbs and Laila Bassam

MOSCOW/DAMASCUS (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin warned on Sunday that further Western attacks on Syria would bring chaos to world affairs, as Washington prepared to increase pressure on Russia with new economic sanctions.

In a telephone conversation with his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani, Putin and Rouhani agreed that the Western strikes had damaged the chances of achieving a political resolution in the seven-year Syria conflict, according to a Kremlin statement.

"Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations," the Kremlin statement said.

Meanwhile, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, told CBS' "Face the Nation" program that the United States would announce new economic sanctions on Monday aimed at companies "that were dealing with equipment" related to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's alleged chemical weapons use.

On Saturday, the United States, France and Britain launched 105 missiles targeting what the Pentagon said were three chemical weapons facilities in Syria in retaliation for a suspected poison gas attack in Douma on April 7.

(For a graphic detailing air strikes on Syria click https://tmsnrt.rs/2EKgAMN)

The Western countries blame Assad for the Douma attack that killed dozens of people. The Syrian government and its ally Russia have denied involvement in any such attack.

The bombings marked the biggest intervention by Western countries against Assad and ally Russia.

French President Emmanuel Macron said on Sunday that he had convinced Trump, who has previously said he wanted to take U.S. forces out of Syria, to stay for "the long term."

The United States, France and Britain have said the missile strikes were limited to Syria's chemical weapons capabilities and not aimed at toppling Assad or intervening in the civil war. Macron said in an interview broadcast by BFM TV, RMC radio and Mediapart online news that he had convinced Trump to focus on the chemical weapons sites.

'HARD FOR US, BUT WILL DO MORE DAMAGE TO THE USA'

Responding to Haley's remarks about the plans for new sanctions, Evgeny Serebrennikov, deputy head of the defense committee of Russia's upper house of parliament, said Moscow was ready for the penalties, according to RIA news agency.

"They are hard for us, but will do more damage to the USA and Europe," RIA quoted Serebrennikov as saying.

In Damascus, Syria's deputy foreign minister, Faisal Mekdad, met inspectors from the global chemical weapons watchdog OPCW for about three hours in the presence of Russian officers and a senior Syrian security official.

The inspectors were due to attempt to visit the Douma site. Moscow condemned the Western states for refusing to wait for the OPCW's findings before attacking.

Mekdad declined to comment to reporters waiting outside the hotel where the meeting took place.

Assad told a group of visiting Russian lawmakers that the Western missile strikes were an act of aggression, Russian news agencies reported.

Russian agencies quoted the lawmakers as saying that Assad was in a "good mood", had praised the Soviet-era air defense systems Syria used to repel the Western attacks and had accepted an invitation to visit Russia at an unspecified time.

Trump had said "mission accomplished" on Twitter after the strikes, though U.S. Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie at the Pentagon acknowledged elements of the program remain and he could not guarantee that Syria would be unable to conduct a chemical attack in the future.

Russian and Iranian military help over the past three years has allowed Assad to crush the rebel threat to topple him.

Though Israel has at times urged stronger U.S. involvement against Assad and his Iranian and Lebanese Hezbollah reinforcements in Syria, it voiced backing for Saturday's air strikes by Western powers.

RISK OF WIDER CONFRONTATION

The leader of Lebanon's Hezbollah said on Sunday that Western strikes on Syria had failed to achieve anything, including terrorizing the army, helping insurgents or serving the interests of Israel.

Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said the U.S. military had kept its strikes limited because it knew a wider attack would spark retaliation from Damascus and its allies and inflame the region.Lawmakers from both sides of the aisle took to Twitter on Sunday night to share reactions to James Comey’s first sit-down interview since President Donald Trump fired him last year.

The former director of the FBI broke his silence in an exclusive interview with ABC News on Sunday night, touching on everything from the Hillary Clinton email saga to the possibility of the president obstructing justice.

'Morally unfit': The moments that mattered in James Comey's explosive interview

Transcript: James Comey's interview with ABC News chief anchor George Stephanopoulos

The interview became one of the most talked-about topics on Twitter as viewers and politicians alike used the hashtag #ComeyInterview to discuss the ex-FBI director’s comments.

Here’s a look at how some on Twitter reacted to the candid interview:

Rep. Eric Swalwell, D-Calif.

#Comey interview resurrects Jan. 27, 2017 dinner invite @realDonaldTrump extended out of blue to the Director. That same day, @GeorgePapa19 is contacted for first time by FBI. Did George tell someone on Trump team, setting in motion the Trump loyalty ask? — Rep. Eric Swalwell (@RepSwalwell) April 16, 2018

Rep. Jim Himes, D-Conn.

Non sequitur. He was also a leaker. That doesn’t change the Libby situation. And I have not been silent on the Esty issue—spoke to Channel 12 next day. — Jim Himes (@jahimes) April 16, 2018

Republican National Convention Chair Ronna McDaniel

“James Comey’s publicity tour reaffirms that his true higher loyalty is to himself," McDaniel said in a statement. "The only thing worse than Comey’s history of misconduct is his willingness to say anything to sell books. He has no credibility and President Trump was right to follow through on the bipartisan calls for him to be fired."

Ex-White House Press Secretary Ari Fleischer

As FBI Director, Comey’s opinions have value. But he has not presented any new facts. He hasn’t made any revelations - other than offering negative opinions of Trump. This isn’t a tell-all. It’s an opinion-all. Comey has the right to his opinions. But that’s all he gave us. — Ari Fleischer (@AriFleischer) April 16, 2018

Former U.S. Congressman Joe Walsh, R-Ill.

Look, I'm no huge fan of James Comey, he's much too much of a drama queen who mistakingly inserted himself into the 2016 campaign, but I think he's basically an honest guy who's telling the truth. — Joe Walsh (@WalshFreedom) April 16, 2018

David Axelrod, former chief strategist to President Barack Obama

I very much admire @GStephanopoulos for pressing Comey repeatedly. Comey received a prime time platform but he didn’t get a lay down in return. — David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) April 16, 2018

Fox News talk show host Sean Hannity

Omg I’m stunned! @ABC @GStephanopoulos that was the worst interview I have ever watched in my life. #JournalismIsDead — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

Keith Boykin, former White House aide to President Bill ClintonLet me put it to you this way, Mr. President. Who are you going to listen to — the voice of the stable genius inside your head, or the timid voices of experience, the ones that said you’d never win?

You know what you want to do. Just do it already.

Oh sure, all the sour-faced pundits are warning of a national crisis if you follow through. All those bed-wetting Republicans on the Hill are counseling patience and caution. Your senior staff is glued to their Twitter feeds, praying you won’t hit Send on something you can’t take back.

But they’re not the ones who sit in that swivel chair, are they. They never in their lives registered so much as a blip in the Nielsen ratings. Paul Ryan’s so smart that you gave him the biggest tax cut in the history of civilization and he still can’t hold his seat in Podunk, Wis.

Go on, Mr. President. Fire Bob Mueller. Please.

Don’t stop there, either — fire the rest of them, too. Sessions will be useless. That Boy Scout Rosenstein won’t have your back, either. There must be something in the halls of the Justice Department that causes people to suddenly grow a conscience, like some goiter sprouting on the soul.

Burn it down, Mr. President. Do what you really came here to do. Let’s see how those Ivy League lawyers like taking orders from Attorney General Laura Ingraham and her new deputy, Michael Cohen.

You said it yourself: This latest raid on Cohen, your most trusted personal lackey, was an attack on America. I couldn’t agree more. The first image that jumped into my mind when I heard the news was Pearl Harbor.

Many years from now, our grandchildren will mark the day of the Stormy Daniels Raid with little shoebox dioramas of federal prosecutors marching into Rockefeller Center.

What were they really after, anyway? Payoffs to paramours? Campaign finance violations? No, Mueller’s aiming higher than that.

Prosecutors sometimes talk about “tickling the wire,” by which they mean purposely freaking out witnesses who might be under electronic surveillance. You rattle the dumpster a little, and then you sit back and listen as the rats inside panic.

My guess is that Mueller is onto the real stuff now: loans from Moscow laundered through European banks, clumsy backchannel connections to your meathead son-in-law, bullying from the Oval Office that might cross the line into outright obstruction.

He’s crossed the moat and breached the castle now. He’s rummaging through the Hall of Armor.

And what he’s doing now is goading you. Tickling the wire. Pushing your buttons to see just how reckless your cronies can get.

You and I know who Mueller is, Mr. President. Born in Manhattan, schooled at St. Paul’s and Princeton. He played high school hockey with John Kerry. He even looks like John Kerry. He might be John Kerry, for all we know.

The newspaper profiles never fail to mention that Mueller joined the Marines, fought in Vietnam, got himself covered head to toe with medals for valor. Meanwhile, you described your own version of combat, after all those deferments, as having dodged venereal diseases while hopping from one bed to the next.

Can’t anyone around here take a joke?

No, Mueller isn’t just a prosecutor; he’s the stand-in for all the bluebloods and public service types who never respected you, who never thought you belonged, who always thought you too coarse and outer-borough, too much of a carnival barker, to join their clubs or sit on their boards.

He’s trying to destroy you, Mr. President. He thinks you’re beneath the office.

And if you’re going to stop him, what better time to do it than now, just as Jim Comey’s big memoir hits the virtual shelves? You don’t need me to tell you what getting rid of Mueller would do to the Comey Sanctification Tour. This is what you’re better at than anyone alive — commandeering the news cycle.

This isn’t hard. Look at all the people you’ve already fired. Priebus, Flynn, Tillerson, Price, McMaster — the list goes on.

Of course, you didn’t actually fire them, eye to eye. That’s something you only do on TV, when people are watching and you get to humiliate some wannabe TV star. Your style is more to let them know on Twitter, or in the fake news.Excerpts from former FBI Director James Comey’s upcoming memoir, and from an interview Comey gave to ABC News, set off a Sunday-morning tweetstorm of accusations, corrections and annotations from President Trump, including the bizarre assertion that “I hardly even knew this guy.”

In the Comey’s book, “A Higher Loyalty,” set to be published Tuesday, the former FBI director details numerous meetings, include some one-on-one with Trump, during which Comey claims the president was seeking his loyalty.

I never asked Comey for Personal Loyalty. I hardly even knew this guy. Just another of his many lies. His “memos” are self serving and FAKE! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 15, 2018





In testimony to Congress after his firing last year, Comey said he made contemporaneous memos about his conversations with Trump and described them to other top FBI officials.

In the book, Comey tries to explain his rationale for his controversial announcement, just before the election, that the FBI had reopened its investigation into Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state.

Comey told ABC he assumed Clinton would win and didn’t want her legitimacy tainted if the investigation came out after the election.

“Unbelievably, James Comey states that Polls, where Crooked Hillary was leading, were a factor in the handling (stupidly) of the Clinton Email probe,” Trump tweeted Sunday. “In other words, he was making decisions based on the fact that he thought she was going to win, and he wanted a job. Slimeball!”

But Comey’s decision to reopen the investigation on the eve of the election is what some Clinton supporters, and the candidate herself, believe cost her the presidency. Trump’s interpretation — that Comey was angling for a job in a Clinton administration — seems to make no sense.

President Trump shakes hands with then FBI Director James Comey at the White House in January 2017. (Andrew Harrer/Getty Images) More

Trump also revived criticism of a meeting former President Bill Clinton had with then Attorney General Loretta Lynch in June 2016, while the FBI’s probe of Hillary Clinton’s emails was underway.

“Comey throws AG Lynch ‘under the bus!’” Trump tweeted. “Why can’t we all find out what happened on the tarmac in the back of the plane with Wild Bill and Lynch? Was she promised a Supreme Court seat, or AG, in order to lay off Hillary. No golf and grandkids talk (give us all a break)!”

Trump also weighed in on what he described as “big questions” left unanswered by Comey’s memoir — and suggested Comey ought to be prosecuted.

The big questions in Comey’s badly reviewed book aren’t answered like, how come he gave up Classified Information (jail), why did he lie to Congress (jail), why did the DNC refuse to give Server to the FBI (why didn’t they TAKE it), why the phony memos, McCabe’s $700,000 & more? — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 15, 2018





Comey has never been formally accused of lying to Congress or leaking classified information. He admitted leaking his contemporaneous memos to a New York Times reporter, though they were not thought to have contained any classified material.

The president punctuated his Twitter rant with a new disparaging nickname for his former FBI director.

“Slippery James Comey, a man who always ends up badly and out of whack (he is not smart!), will go down as the WORST FBI Director in history, by far!” the president tweeted.

Comey, who has not responded publicly to Trump’s Twitter barbs, tweeted a vague statement promoting his memoir early Sunday afternoon.Michael who?

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders distanced President Trump from attorney Michael Cohen at Friday’s briefing, hours after court filings confirmed that Cohen is under criminal investigation in the Southern District of New York.

When asked whether Trump continues to have confidence in Cohen, Sanders responded, “I know that the president has worked with him as a personal attorney. Beyond that, I don’t have anything else.”

On Friday, the Wall Street Journal reported that, in addition to arranging a $130,000 payment to porn star Stormy Daniels, Cohn helped facilitate a $1.6 million payment to a former Playboy model on behalf of Trump confidant Elliott Broidy, a deputy finance chairman of the Republican National Committee.

Sanders was asked whether Trump still held Cohen in confidence. “I would refer you to Mr. Cohen’s personal attorney,” she replied.

In a follow up question, another reporter asked whether Cohen was still the president’s personal attorney.

“I’m not sure, Jill,” Sanders, who came to the briefing armed with pre-written statements that anticipated questions about former FBI director James Comey’s new memoir, said. “I’d have to check.”

Cohen has been a focal point for special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible ties between the Trump presidential campaign and the Russian government. That inquiry spurred a raid on Cohen’s offices and New York hotel room, the seizure of his files and computers as part of a separate FBI investigation into Cohen’s business dealings.

Although usually identified as Trump’s attorney, Cohen also has extensive holdings in real estate and the taxi business, which are believed to be part of the investigation. On Friday, Cohen asked a Manhattan judge to block the review of the documents seized by the FBI, arguing that some of them may be protected by attorney-client privilege.

Cohen has made a point of proclaiming his loyalty to Trump in public. While Sanders’s chilly comments suggested the White House was putting some distance between them, the New York Times reported Friday that Trump called Cohen privately to “check in.”

Read more from Yahoo News:As reports broke Friday that President Trump had issued a pardon of I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, former Vice President Dick Cheney’s chief of staff, the immediate questions for many Americans were: Why Libby and why now?

“Before his conviction, Mr. Libby had rendered more than a decade of honorable service to the Nation as a public servant at the Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the White House. His record since his conviction is similarly unblemished, and he continues to be held in high regard by his colleagues and peers,” a White House press release announcing the pardon stated. “In light of these facts, the President believes Mr. Libby is fully worthy of this pardon. ‘I don’t know Mr. Libby,’ said President Trump, ‘but for years I have heard that he has been treated unfairly. Hopefully, this full pardon will help rectify a very sad portion of his life.’”

Libby was convicted in 2007 of perjury, obstruction of justice and making false statements in testimony he gave to a grand jury in what became known as “the Plame Affair.” The case against Libby stemmed from an investigation into who leaked the identity of CIA officer Valerie Plame to reporters.

Libby’s 30-month prison sentence was commuted by then-President George W. Bush, his voting rights were restored and he was allowed to resume his legal practice. So why did Trump feel it imperative to act?

Message to Comey

The special counsel who investigated the leak of Plame’s identity was Patrick Fitzgerald, who, it turns out, was appointed by none other than James Comey, the then-deputy attorney general. Comey, whose new book on Trump hits stores on Tuesday, was fired by the president in 2017 for reasons the former FBI director alleges in his memoir.

For Plame, the message behind the pardon is clear:

“It’s very clear that this is a message he is sending, that you can commit crimes against national security and you will be pardoned,” she told MSNBC’s “Morning Joe.”

John Bolton

Trump’s new national security adviser, John Bolton, was staunchly critical of Bush for not giving Libby a full pardon.

“If you think it was a miscarriage of justice, then you think it shouldn’t have gone to a jury to begin with,” Bolton said, according to the New York Times.

Bolton started his new job this week, and may have come to the White House with the pardon of Libby as a top priority.

‘Stay strong’

Trump famously told his former national security adviser Michael Flynn to “stay strong” in the Russia investigation. Flynn ultimately pleaded guilty and is cooperating with the special counsel.

But Trump’s former campaign chair, Paul Manafort, is facing multiple indictments and not cooperating. Could issuing a pardon to Libby be a way of signaling that those who “stay strong” will be rewarded?

It’s a small world

The idea for pardoning Libby may have also been presented by Victoria Toensing, who together with her husband, Joe diGenova, was briefly in line to join Trump’s legal team. Toensing, it turns out, also happens to represent Libby.

Joe diGenova, who recently considered joining Trump’s legal team confirms his wife, Victoria Toensing, who was also looking at joining the Trump legal team, is Scooter Libby’s attorney. — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) April 13, 2018

Read more from Yahoo News:WASHINGTON — When FBI agents raided the office and residences of President Trump’s personal attorney Michael Cohen this week, they were looking for much more than evidence of hush-money payoffs to women the president might have slept with, sources familiar with the investigation say.

In the weeks leading up to the raid, prosecutors working with special counsel Robert Mueller asked pointed questions about Cohen’s personal real estate deals, his efforts to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, and his family’s taxi business, as well as payments to actress Stormy Daniels, a source who was among those questioned told Yahoo News.

This interest from the special counsel preceded Monday’s FBI raids on Cohen’s office, his home and a Manhattan hotel where he had been staying. The New York Times reported that the raid stemmed partially from a referral from Mueller, and that it sought records related to Cohen’s cab business and the payments to the women. This new information about the questions Mueller’s team had about Cohen reveals that the FBI’s interest in Cohen’s personal finances and foreign business dealings goes even deeper.

Cohen has not responded to multiple requests from Yahoo News. His lawyer, Stephen Ryan, declined to comment on whether the FBI is looking into Cohen’s business history.

“I’m not taking calls in my office from the press. Thanks,” Ryan said before hanging up.

Ryan did not respond to a subsequent email from Yahoo News.

The U.S. attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York also declined to comment about any matter related to Cohen.

On Monday, the day of the FBI raid, the multinational law firm and lobbying powerhouse Squire Patton Boggs said it was ending what had been described as a “strategic alliance” with Cohen that was announced almost exactly one year ago. According to the New York Law Journal, Cohen was a mysterious presence at the firm, with many of his colleagues unclear about his role and troubled by the murky arrangement even before FBI agents burst into his office.

In the wake of the FBI raid, many of Cohen’s other business associates refused to answer questions about their relationship with him. This included the Republican National Committee, which gave Cohen a top fundraising position almost exactly one year ago.

On April 3, 2017, the RNC named Cohen a national deputy chairman of its Finance leadership team. The announcement cited the “more than a decade” that Cohen had spent as an executive at Trump’s real estate company. It also noted that Cohen “sat on the boards of multiple Trump organizations, including Trump Productions, the Eric Trump Foundation, and the Miss Universe Organization.” The RNC touted Cohen’s support for Trump’s political efforts, including “raising millions of dollars for his campaign” and serving as “an active spokesperson and advisor for the President during his interest in seeking office since 2011.” Patton Boggs noted Cohen’s role at the RNC when his relationship with the firm was announced.

Yahoo News called the RNC’s press office on Thursday to confirm whether Cohen is still a national deputy chairman of the party’s Finance leadership team. A woman who answered the phone said she believed Cohen still has a position with the party. She said we should email the communications team for a “proper statement” about his role.

Over the next several hours, the RNC did not respond to that email. Yahoo News subsequently called the RNC, seeking a response. The woman who answered the phone this second time said the earlier call had been answered by an “intern” and she would not confirm whether Cohen remains with the RNC.

The RNC also would not say whether the FBI had taken records related to his fundraising. RNC finance chairman Todd Ricketts did not respond to multiple requests for comment about Cohen.

It may be hard for the party to cast Cohen aside, given his close relationship with the president. The FBI’s raid on Cohen reportedly enraged Trump, who called it a “real disgrace” and accused Mueller of conducting a “total witch hunt” during an appearance at the White House on Monday. Trump’s response to the Cohen raid has led to mounting speculation that he could seek to fire Mueller.

Cohen’s personal real estate business, which has apparently attracted the attention of the FBI, may not be as high profile as Trump’s, but it’s not small either. Cohen has owned multiple New York City apartment buildings, including one he reportedly purchased in 2015 for $58 million. Cohen’s real estate investments led to his first public association with Trump. According to an article in the New York Post, Cohen purchased an apartment at Trump World Tower in Manhattan in 2001. The Post noted that Cohen was “so impressed” with Trump’s building that he “convinced his parents, his in-laws and a business partner to buy there, too.”

Trump World Tower in New York City. (Photo: Jeffrey Greenberg/UIG via Getty Images) More

“Cohen’s in-laws went on purchase two more units there and one at Trump Grande in Sunny Isles, Fla.,” the Post article said.

In that newspaper story, which was published in 2007, Trump was quoted praising Cohen for buying in his buildings.

“Michael Cohen has a great insight into the real-estate market. … He has invested in my buildings because he likes to make money — and he does,” Trump said, adding, “In short, he’s a very smart person.”

Cohen became an executive at the Trump Organization that same year.

Public records show that Fima and Ania Shusterman, the parents of Cohen’s wife, Laura, have lived at Trump World Tower. The Shustermans are Ukrainian. Cohen’s brother, Bryan, also married a Ukrainian woman. Bryan Cohen’s father-in-law, Alex Oronov, purchased an apartment at Trump Hollywood in Florida in 2010.

Cohen’s Ukrainian in-laws have had extensive business dealings with him, including his taxi operation.

According to an analysis from the Real Deal, a local real estate industry trade publication, Cohen owned at least 34 taxi medallions in New York City as of 2017. That’s a multimillion-dollar operation. Medallions are a license to operate a yellow cab in the city and, in the past, have been worth as much as $1 million each. In more recent years, the yellow cab business has suffered due to the rise of ride-sharing apps like Uber, and the medallions have sold for under $200,000.

The Huffington Post documented how Cohen inherited part of his taxi business from the Shustermans. According to the news site Talking Points Memo, which has extensively chronicled Cohen’s business dealings and ties to Eastern Europe, the medallions were subsequently managed by a Ukrainian cab entrepreneur named Simon Garber, who had been a client of Cohen’s and has a lengthy police record. Talking Points Memo reported that the Cohen family’s partnership with Garber fell apart amid a legal dispute in 2012. Yahoo News called Garber on Thursday to ask about his dealings with Cohen, and he was decidedly not forthcoming.

Michael Cohen arrives at his hotel in New York, April 11, 2018. (Photo: Seth Wenig/AP) More

“Who’s Michael Cohen?” he asked before hanging up the phone.

The family’s medallions were then managed by Russian-born Evgeny Freidman, who is known as the “taxi king” for his New York City cab empire. Reached on the phone Wednesday, Freidman, who has had a litany of legal issues, also hung up without discussing his relationship with Cohen.

“I’m not interested,” Freidman said.

In a previous conversation with Talking Points Memo, Freidman said that he and Cohen are both friends and partners.

“I help him out as much as I can. I also have a business relationship, but we’re friends, you know. We have dinner with his wife,” Freidman said.

Yahoo News briefly spoke to Cohen’s father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, on Wednesday. Shusterman would not discuss the family’s taxi ventures.

“I am not in taxi business long time,” Shusterman said. “I don’t want to talk about it.”

On Wednesday, the New York Daily News reported that the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance has said Cohen and his wife owe more than $55,000 in unpaid taxes connected to their taxi business. The oldest tax warrants are from 2013, and the total amount of alleged debt has grown by more than $15,000 since last August. Back then, Talking Points Memo asked about the debt, and Cohen suggested it was connected to Freidman’s tax issues. Freidman was arrested in 2017 and charged with failing to pay millions to the state.

The taxi operation isn’t the only time Cohen entered into business with his Ukrainian in-laws. In 2006, Oronov, Bryan Cohen’s father-in-law, teamed up with the two brothers on multiple companies involved in the Ukrainian ethanol industry. Those ventures were also detailed by Talking Points Memo and BuzzFeed. Bryan Cohen did not respond to a request for comment on this story. Oronov passed away in March 2017.

After Cohen began working for the Trump Organization in 2007, he became the future president’s self-described fiercely loyal fixer.

“If somebody does something Mr. Trump doesn’t like, I do everything in my power to resolve it to Mr. Trump’s benefit,” Cohen said in a 2011 interview with ABC News.

Cohen was one of Trump’s earliest political advisers who counseled the future president when he had just a handful of aides working on a campaign that wasn’t taken seriously by the Washington establishment. Cohen never officially joined Trump’s campaign, but he led an outside organization aimed at helping Trump win over minority voters. Cohen also regularly made television appearances on Trump’s behalf, including a famous interview where he questioned poll numbers.

Michael Cohen, personal lawyer for then-President-elect Trump, gets into an elevator at Trump Tower, Dec. 12, 2016, in New York City. (Photo: Drew Angerer/Getty Images) More

It’s Cohen’s work behind the scenes of the campaign that has attracted the FBI’s interest — trying to build a Trump Tower in Moscow and paying a porn star who claimed Trump had an affair with her.

Cohen has confirmed that he reached out to the Kremlin as the Trump Organization pursued the Moscow project from September 2015 until January 2016, which was during Trump’s presidential bid. In a statement to CNN, Cohen described the Trump Moscow proposal as “one of many development opportunities that the Trump Organization considered and ultimately rejected.” Though the project didn’t come to fruition, it’s an obvious area of interest to Mueller’s probe, which is focused on the Kremlin’s meddling in the 2016 election. The U.S. intelligence community has said that this Russian interference was aimed at helping Trump win the race.

Trump Moscow was reportedly the brainchild of Felix Sater, a Russian developer who had office space in Trump’s Manhattan headquarters and had a deal to build Trump-branded properties. In a May 2016 interview with Yahoo News, Trump suggested that he barely knew Sater.

“He was a guy who would bring deals up here, but we did very few of them. … Who was that? Sa-ter? Sater, yeah, we did very few of the deals,” Trump said. “He was somebody that he worked for a company, he worked for a company and he would bring deals to us, but we did very few of the deals.”

Yahoo News reached out to Sater on Wednesday to ask about his relationship with Cohen. Sater said he would only answer questions in writing because the media has focused on his conviction in a stock fraud scheme rather than his extensive work as a U.S. intelligence asset who provided the government with valuable information about terrorists and mobsters. In an email to Yahoo News, Sater said that he and Cohen “first met as teenagers.”

The $130,000 payment to the porn star, Stephanie Clifford, aka Stormy Daniels, was made by Cohen in October 2016, just weeks before the presidential election. The payment was part of a confidentiality agreement that prevented Daniels from discussing an affair she claims to have had with Trump in 2006. After the Wall Street Journal revealed the payment in January, a watchdog group filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission alleging that the transaction constituted an undeclared campaign contribution to Trump, which would be a violation of campaign finance laws. In statements to the media and the commission, Cohen said the money had come from his own pocket. He described the payment as “a private transaction” that was “not a campaign contribution.”

In February, Cohen told Yahoo News that he had paid Daniels even though her claim about the affair with Trump was false.

“Just because something isn’t true doesn’t mean that it can’t cause you harm or damage,” Cohen said. “I will always protect Mr. Trump.”

Trump has denied being aware of the payment and referred questions about it to Cohen.

Stormy Daniels, aka Stephanie Clifford, is interviewed by Anderson Cooper on CBS News’ 60 Minutes in early March 2018. (Photo: CBSNews/60 Minutes/Handout via Reuters) More

Daniels has filed a suit against Cohen and Trump arguing that the nondisclosure agreement she signed in conjunction with the payment is invalid because it was not signed by Trump. She has also separately filed a defamation suit against Cohen arguing that his denial of the affair falsely painted her as a liar.

Former Playboy Playmate Karen McDougal has also claimed that she had an affair with Trump in 2006. American Media, Inc., which publishes the National Enquirer, signed a six-figure contract with McDougal that she has described as an effort to bury her story. Cohen and Trump are close with AMI chairman and CEO David Pecker, and the special counsel’s prosecutors have probed whether Cohen also was involved in McDougal’s tabloid deal.

Questions about Cohen’s family and his dealings with the Kremlin first burst into the spotlight in January 2017, when BuzzFeed published an unconfirmed dossier compiled by former British intelligence officer Christopher Steele, who was paid by Democrats and Republicans to conduct opposition research on Trump during the 2016 election. The dossier, which contained some errors, said that Cohen played an instrumental role in an ongoing exchange of information between Trump’s campaign and the Kremlin. Among other things, the document alleged that Cohen met with “Kremlin representatives” in Prague in August 2016. The dossier described Cohen’s wife as being “of Russian descent” and suggested that his father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, was a “a leading property developer in Moscow.”

Cohen strongly denied the various allegations in the dossier in a January 2017 interview with Yahoo News, where he noted that his wife is Ukrainian rather than Russian.

“I have no Russian Kremlin connections. My father-in-law is not a real estate developer friend of Putin’s in Russia. I don’t even think my father-in-law ever has been to Russia,” Cohen said of Shusterman.

Shusterman would not discuss the allegations in the dossier when Yahoo News called him on Wednesday.

“I don’t want to talk about it. Goodbye,” Shusterman said before hanging up.

Cohen brought up another one of his Ukrainian relatives, his brother’s father-in-law, Alex Oronov, in the interview where he denied the accusations in the dossier. As he claimed that he had never traveled to Russia, Cohen suggested his only visits to the region were two trips to Ukraine in “either 2003 or 2004,” because his “brother’s father-in-law lives in Kiev.” That was around the time the Cohen brothers were involved in the ethanol businesses with Oronov.

“I went to Kiev. That’s the extent of it. I’ve never been to Russia,” Cohen said.

Donald Trump, Tevfik Arif and Felix Sater attend the Trump SoHo Launch Party on Sept. 19, 2007, in New York. (Photo: Mark Von Holden/WireImage) More

On Jan. 19, 2017, the day before Trump took office, Cohen announced that he would be resigning from the Trump Organization and would become the president’s personal attorney.

“I’m not a government official. I’m not taking a government salary,” Cohen said. “I’m just going to continue technically in the role that I play for Mr. Trump as president of the Trump Organization. I’m just going to be doing it as Donald Trump as president of the United States.”

In his new role, Cohen was involved in another bit of intrigue with links to Sater and Oronov. In February 2017, the New York Times reported that Cohen delivered Trump’s former national security adviser Michael Flynn a peace plan for Ukraine and Russia that would have enabled the president to lift sanctions on Moscow. The proposal was crafted by Andrii Artemenko, a Ukrainian politician who met with Sater and Cohen shortly after Trump took office.

In a March 2017 Facebook post, Artemenko said that Oronov, Cohen’s brother’s father-in-law, introduced him to Cohen. Cohen disputed Artemenko’s claim and said that Sater had arranged the meeting about the peace plan. In his email to Yahoo News, Sater backed up Cohen’s version of events.

“Artemenko approached me,” Sater wrote of the peace plan. “I gave it to Michael to pass to the administration. I had been dealing with him on the Trump Moscow deal and just naturally followed up with him.”

Flynn resigned as Trump’s national security adviser amid a scandal over his own dealings with Russian officials days after Cohen delivered him the peace plan. Sater said that he and Cohen did not present the proposal to anyone else in the White House after Flynn’s departure.

Yahoo News also asked Sater if the FBI has questioned him about Cohen or requested any documents related to the president’s personal attorney.

“No comment,” Sater wrote.

_____

Read more from Yahoo News:New York City comic and ex-radio host Randy Credico says that longtime Donald Trump adviser Roger Stone sent him “scary,” obscenity-filled emails — including one threatening his dog — after he went public disputing Stone’s claim that Credico was his “backchannel” to WikiLeaks during the 2016 presidential campaign.

In a new interview on the Yahoo News podcast “Skullduggery,” Credico shared with co-hosts Daniel Klaidman and Michael Isikoff email messages he said he had received from Stone in just the last few days.

“You are a rat. You are a stoolie. You backstab your friends — run your mouth my lawyers are dying Rip you to shreds,” one of them read.

Then Stone added: “I’m going to take that dog away from you,” referring to Credico’s “therapy” dog, a Coton de Tulear named Bianca. “Not a f***ing thing you can do about it either because you are a weak broke piece of s***.”

“It’s certainly scary,” Credico told Skullduggery about the Stone emails. “When you start bringing up my dog, you’re crossing the line.”

Credico said the repeated obscenities in the emails and their abusive tone suggested that Stone is lashing out because he is growing increasingly fearful about the investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller. He cited this week’s FBI raid of the offices of Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer.

“I think he’s wigging out right now,” Credico said. “After Cohen was raided, I’m sure he thinks he’s next.”

Asked for comment, Stone responded Thursday night in an email to Isikoff: “Go f*** yourself FBI Schill [sic].”

Download or subscribe on iTunes: “Skullduggery” by Yahoo News

The dispute between Stone and Credico — who, despite their political differences, were once close friends — began last month after a new book, “Russian Roulette,” co-authored by Isikoff and David Corn, quoted Credico as disputing Stone’s account to a congressional committee about his contacts with WikiLeaks. Stone had said at a political rally in Florida on Aug. 8, 2016, that he had “communicated” with Julian Assange about emails the WikiLeaks founder would soon release as part of an “October Surprise” that would reveal “stone cold proof of the criminality of Bill, Hillary and Chelsea Clinton.”

But when he was called to testify before the House Intelligence Committee last November, Stone released a statement asserting that he never actually spoke to Assange at all. Instead, he said it was actually a “journalist” who was his “intermediary” with Assange, who “confirmed” to him that WikiLeaks was about to dump a “motherlode” of emails about Clinton. “This journalist assured me that WikiLeaks would release this information in October [2016] and continued to assure me of this throughout the balance of August and all of September. This information proved to be correct,” Stone told the committee in a statement last November.

He later identified the journalist as Credico.

But in “Russian Roulette,” Credico rejected Stone’s account as nonsensical. Credico told the authors he never even spoke to Assange until he had the Trump adviser as a guest on his radio show on Aug. 26, 2016, and that he never knew anything about WikiLeaks’ plans to publicly release the Clinton campaign emails.

“He’s got me as the fall guy,” Credico was quoted as saying. “It’s ridiculous.”

Roger Stone speaks to reporters after appearing before a closed House Intelligence Committee hearing on Sept. 26, 2017. (Photo: Kevin Lamarque/Reuters) More

Stone’s claims about his contacts with WikiLeaks took another bizarre twist this month when the Wall Street Journal reported that Mueller’s prosecutors were investigating an email that Sam Nunberg, another former Trump adviser, had gotten from Stone on Aug. 4, 2016, saying, “I dined with my new pal Julian Assange last nite.”

Stone said the email to Nunberg was a joke, and reiterated that he never communicated with Assange at all in 2016, releasing screenshots showing he was on an Delta Air Lines flight from Los Angeles to Miami on the night before the email was sent. “I never dined with Assange,” Stone told the Journal. The email “doesn’t have any significance because I provably didn’t go … there was no such meeting. It’s not what you say, it’s what you do. This was said in jest.”President Trump tore into James Comey on Friday in a pair of tweets aimed at discrediting Comey’s new book, which details the former FBI director’s interactions with the president before his firing last year.

“James Comey is a proven LEAKER & LIAR,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Virtually everyone in Washington thought he should be fired for the terrible job he did-until he was, in fact, fired.

“He leaked CLASSIFIED information, for which he should be prosecuted,” the president continued. “He lied to Congress under OATH. He is a weak and untruthful slime ball who was, as time has proven, a terrible Director of the FBI. His handling of the Crooked Hillary Clinton case, and the events surrounding it, will go down as one of the worst ‘botch jobs’ of history. It was my great honor to fire James Comey!”

Trump’s comments came a day after numerous excerpts from Comey’s upcoming memoir, “A Higher Loyalty,” were published online. In them, Comey describes Trump as “untethered to the truth,” likens him to a mob boss, and recounts a meeting with the president in which the former FBI director says Trump asked him to investigate salacious allegations from the so-called dossier to disprove the claims to first lady Melania Trump.

Related: What’s in James Comey’s book?

“He brought up what he called the ‘golden showers thing’ … adding that it bothered him if there was ‘even a 1 percent chance’ his wife, Melania, thought it was true,” Comey writes, according to an excerpt published by the New York Post. “He just rolled on, unprompted, explaining why it couldn’t possibly be true, ending by saying he was thinking of asking me to investigate the allegation to prove it was a lie. I said it was up to him.”

“He said, you know, ‘If there’s even a 1 percent chance my wife thinks that’s true, that’s terrible,’” Comey told ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos in a separate interview, parts of which aired Friday morning. “And I remember thinking, ‘How could your wife think there’s a 1 percent chance you were with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow?’ I’m a flawed human being, but there is literally zero chance that my wife would think that was true. So, what kind of marriage to what kind of man does your wife think there’s only a 99 percent chance you didn’t do that?”

Stephanopoulos asked Comey whether believed Trump’s denial.

“Honestly, I never thoughts these words would come out of my mouth, but I don’t know whether the current president of the United States was with prostitutes peeing on each other in Moscow in 2013,” Comey said. “It’s possible, but I don’t know.”

Comey said he first informed Trump about the dossier in a private meeting that followed one where U.S. intelligence officials briefed Trump on Russian interference in the 2016 election.

According to Comey, Trump appeared less concerned by Russia’s attack on the election than how it could undermine his victory.

“President-elect Trump’s first question was to confirm that it had no impact on the election,” Comey said. “And then the conversation, to my surprise, moved into a PR conversation about how the Trump team would position this, and what they could say about this, with us still sitting there.”

Comey added: “That’s just not done. That the intelligence community does intelligence; the White House does PR and spin.”

The former FBI director also said he was struck by what the Trump team didn’t ask.

“No one to my recollection asked, ‘So, what’s coming next from the Russians? How might we stop it?'” Comey said.

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Evan Vucci/AP,donald Trump via Twitter, AP, Flatiron Books, J. Scott Applewhite/AP)It is a judicial bureaucracy that American citizens almost never encounter, with 58 courtrooms around the country and more than 300 judges, whose decisions affect the lives of thousands of people each year. There are limited avenues for appeal and no constitutional right to a lawyer for anyone caught up in it.

Welcome to the immigration court system, the latest focus of the Trump administration’s crackdown on illegal immigration — less visible than a border wall and less dramatic than midnight raids by ICE officers, but arguably more important.

The sequence of events that lead to immigration court vary from case to case, especially now, as even broader categories of people — ranging from convicted criminals to recent border crossers seeking asylum, longtime residents and even a few U.S. citizens — are getting caught up in the Trump administration’s sweeping enforcement dragnet. But for all who find themselves in front of an immigration judge, pitted against a government attorney, often without legal representation of their own, the offense and punishment are always the same: unlawful presence in the United States, which in and of itself is not a crime, and deportation to their country of origin.

In a 2014 op-ed for CNN, Dana Leigh Marks, a longtime immigration court judge and then president of the National Association for Immigration Judges, described the high-stakes scenario that plays out daily in immigration courts as “death penalty cases heard in traffic court settings.”

And unlike the criminal and civil court systems, immigration courts have no constitutional independence — they’re part of the Justice Department — so the administration can do what it wants with them.

Two developments within the past week have alarmed immigration advocates, who’ve long fretted over how Attorney General Jeff Sessions, an outspoken immigration hardliner, might wield his influence over this already byzantine court system. First, the head of the DOJ’s Executive Office for Immigration Review decreed that judges in the system would have to work faster, setting a quota of 700 cases a year each, as part of a broader effort by Sessions to help ease the court’s massive backlog of 650,000 cases.

Then, according to a report in the Washington Post, the Justice Department put in motion plans to suspend the Legal Orientation Program, which informs detained immigrants of the procedures they face and their legal rights, without offering legal representation. The program is being halted for a review of its effectiveness, according to the Post, but advocates for immigrants suspect a different motive.

“This seems like part of a concerted effort by the Department of Justice to basically make it easier to deport people,” Hasan Shafiqullah, head attorney for the Legal Aid Society of New York’s Immigration Law Unit, said of the decision to halt the program.

Shafiqullah is among the immigration attorneys and advocates who’ve been keeping a close watch on the Justice Department’s actions with regard to immigration courts, which have largely been eclipsed by more headline-grabbing news like the Trump’s attempt to ban citizens of majority-Muslim countries from entering the U.S. and the recent deployment of national guard troops to the Southwest border.

Last summer, amid ramped up ICE arrests and high-profile deportations, the chief immigration judge at the DOJ’s Executive Office for Immigration Review issued a memo to all immigration court judges calling for speeding up deportation cases by cutting back on continuances, temporary halts in proceedings to give detained immigrants time to find a lawyer or to allow their attorneys to prepare for a hearing.

Alhough the memo stated that it was “not intended to limit the discretion of an Immigration Judge,” legal advocates like Shafiqullah saw it as part of an effort to make it harder for immigrants or their attorneys to challenge deportations.It may be 2018’s marquee Senate race.

But the battle for Arizona’s open U.S. Senate seat — one of two prime Democratic pickup opportunities — could do more than decide control of the world’s greatest deliberative body, where Republicans currently rule by a single, precarious vote.

It could also answer this cycle’s most pressing political question: How do candidates from both parties solve a problem like Donald Trump?

The contenders vying to replace retiring Republican senator Jeff Flake are all characters in their own right. On the GOP side, there’s a fighter-pilot-turned-congresswoman (Rep. Martha McSally), an osteopath-turned-right-wing-rabble-rouser (former state Sen. Kelli Ward) and America’s most notorious immigration hardliner (former Maricopa County Sheriff Joe Arpaio). And on the left, the likely Democratic nominee, Rep. Krysten Sinema, is not only the first openly bisexual member of Congress, she’s also the most bipartisan Democrat in the House.

As they jockey for advantage, all of these candidates are positioning themselves vis-à-vis Trump in ways that defy national assumptions, making the contest a counterintuitive — and revealing — testing ground, where the new realities of running for office in the Age of Trump are being worked out in real time.

At first, the Republican primary contest seemed to pose a fairly straightforward question: Did Flake’s brand of traditional movement conservatism — limited government, muscular internationalism, Christian moralism — still have a place in the Republican Party, or was Trump’s brash, amoral, “America First” approach now the future of the GOP?

When Flake, a vocal Trump critic, bowed out last October — polls showed he could not defeat Ward, his resolutely pro-Trump opponent — the question seemed to be settled.

GOP Senate candidate Kelli Ward at a campaign rally in Scottsdale, Ariz. (Photo: Ross D. Franklin/AP) More

It wasn’t until Ward attracted two challengers of her own in early 2018 that a new narrative began to emerge.

The first to announce was Arpaio. If Ward aspires to be Trump in miniature — she endorses his entire agenda, from building the border wall to halting Muslim immigration to repealing Obamacare to ending sanctuary cities — then Arpaio promises to out-Trump Trump himself.

A former U.S. Army soldier, police officer and DEA agent, Arpaio, 85, is most famous for his incendiary 24-year tenure as America’s self-styled “toughest sheriff.” During that time he made headlines with his round-’em-up immigration raids (which contributed, according to the Justice Department, to the worst pattern of racial profiling in U.S. history), his brutal, self-described “concentration camp” Tent City (which was designed to alleviate prison overcrowding), and his refusal to investigate alleged child sex crimes.

Since launching his Senate bid in January, Arpaio has not moderated his politics one iota. “I don’t see any cops in the Senate,” he said during a recent appearance in Nashville. “They’re all lawyers, politicians. It’s time to get a law enforcement guy. The right one.”

Arpaio seems convinced that his path to victory runs to the right of Ward — and even Trump. The president, for instance, has insisted that he wants to protect so-called Dreamers, people who immigrated illegally to the U.S. as children. Arpaio says they should be deported. And while Ward and even Trump, a former birther himself, have both affirmed that Barack Obama was, in fact, born in the United States — “He was our legitimate president,” Ward said in January — Arpaio has hinted that he would revive his groundless crusade to discredit Obama’s birth certificate if elected.

“I don’t talk about it anymore, until I become a U.S. senator,” Arpaio told a group of supporters at the Western Conservative Conference in Phoenix last month. “So, I’m kind of dropping that right now. But, I’m going to tell you something — 100 percent, we proved that’s a fake document.”Former FBI director James Comey’s account of his turbulent career in law enforcement, “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” is officially out next week, but reviews and excerpts began appearing Thursday. The book is scathing about Comey’s interactions with President Trump, who fired Comey last year over his investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and its possible links to the Trump campaign.

Comey calls the president “unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values.” Here are some excerpts from the book as reported in the media:

_____

“This president is unethical, and untethered to truth and institutional values. His leadership is transactional, ego driven and about personal loyalty.”

_____

“We are experiencing a dangerous time in our country, with a political environment where basic facts are disputed, fundamental truth is questioned, lying is normalized and unethical behavior is ignored, excused or rewarded.”

_____

Discussing a White House meeting including Trump and then chief of staff Reince Priebus, comparing it to organized crime sit-downs he recalled from his career as a prosecutor: “The silent circle of assent. The boss in complete control. The loyalty oaths. The us-versus-them worldview. The lying about all things, large and small, in service to some code of loyalty that put the organization above morality and above the truth.”

_____

On Hillary Clinton, who believes Comey’s public statements may have cost her the election: “I have read she has felt anger toward me personally, and I’m sorry for that. I’m sorry that I couldn’t do a better job explaining to her and her supporters why I made the decisions I made.”

“It is entirely possible that, because I was making decisions in an environment where Hillary Clinton was sure to be the next president, my concern about making her an illegitimate president by concealing the restarted investigation bore greater weight than it would have if the election appeared closer or if Donald Trump were ahead in all polls. But I don’t know.”

_____

Meeting with President Obama after the election: “I picked you to be FBI director because of your integrity and your ability. I want you to know that nothing — nothing — has happened in the last year to change my view.”

On the verge of tears, Comey told Obama, “Boy, were those words I needed to hear. … I’m just trying to do the right thing.”

“I know,” Obama said. “I know.”

_____

On the salacious account in the “Steele dossier” of Trump, in Russia, asking prostitutes to urinate on a hotel bed: “He brought up what he called the ‘golden showers thing’ … adding that it bothered him if there was ‘even a one percent chance’ his wife, Melania, thought it was true.”

Trump “strongly denied the allegations, asking — rhetorically, I assumed — whether he seemed like a guy who needed the service of prostitutes. He then began discussing cases where women had accused him of sexual assault, a subject I had not raised. He mentioned a number of women, and seemed to have memorized their allegations.”

_____

“I’m a germaphobe,” Trump told him. “There’s no way I would let people pee on each other around me. No way.”



_____

Read more from Yahoo News:A former Trump World Tower doorman says Donald Trump fathered a child with a former maid and that the parent company of the National Enquirer paid him $30,000 to keep silent about it.

Dino Sajudin, the former doorman, met with a reporter from the publisher of the National Enquirer in 2015, according to the New Yorker, and agreed to detail his claim that the then presidential candidate may have fathered a child with a former housekeeper in the late 1980s.

Sajudin reportedly signed a contract with American Media, Inc., that carried a $1 million penalty for disclosing details of the explosive story without the publisher’s permission. AMI has been known to purchase the rights to stories in order to keep them from appearing, to avoid embarrassing public figures. In 2016, the publisher paid former Playboy model Karen McDougal $150,000 for the rights to her story of an extramarital affair with Trump, then never published it.

In a statement released Wednesday, Sajudin responded directly to the story published by the New Yorker:

Today I awoke to learn that a confidential agreement I had with AMI (the National Enquirer) with regard to a story about President Trump was leaked to the press. I can confirm that while I was working at Trump World Tower I was instructed not to criticize President Trump’s former housekeeper due to a prior relationship she had with President Trump which produced a child.

The reported payment to Sajudin is the latest twist in a pattern of hush money being paid to Trump accusers, and federal investigators have been interested to shine light on the communications between AMI and Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen.

An FBI raid on Cohen’s office and hotel room this week is said to be focused on a $130,000 hush money payment made by Cohen to adult film actress Stormy Daniels.

While National Enquirer editor Dylan Howard said last summer that Sajudin’s story “lacked any credibility,” other staffers at the tabloid told the Associated Press that the paper didn’t seek to substantiate the claim.

Sajudin also passed a polygraph test administered by the National Enquirer, but that doesn’t seem to impress his ex-wife, who granted an interview to the New York Daily News.

“He’s infamous for making up stories,” Nikki Benfatto told the Daily News. “He’s seen the chupacabra. He’s seen bigfoot. One of our friends who passed away, he saw him too, walking down the street.”

Read more from Yahoo News:CIA Director Mike Pompeo, President Trump’s pick for secretary of state, confirmed to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Thursday that he has been interviewed by Robert Mueller for the special counsel’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia.

“I spoke with special counsel Mueller, who interviewed me,” Pompeo said in his testimony before the committee, which is considering his nomination. “I cooperated.”

NBC News first reported Pompeo’s interview with the special counsel in January.

Pompeo — who was part of a key meeting during which Trump reportedly asked for help intervening in the investigation — refused to answer questions about his conversations with the president or with Mueller. But Pompeo insisted that Trump never asked him to do anything he’d consider improper.

“I’m not going to talk about the conversations the president and I had,” Pompeo said.

The Washington Post reported last year that in March 2017, Pompeo and Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats attended a briefing at the White House with Trump and officials from several government agencies. According to the paper, when the meeting was over, Trump told Pompeo and Coats to stay in the room, and the president proceeded to complain about the Russia investigation, which was being led by then-FBI Director James Comey.

Days earlier, Comey had testified before Congress that Trump himself was a subject of the federal investigation.

Pompeo said the article’s suggestion that Trump asked him “to do anything improper is false.”

CIA Director Mike Pompeo testifies before a Senate Foreign Relations Committee confirmation hearing on his nomination to be secretary of state on Capitol Hill on Thursday. (Photo: Reuters/Leah Millis) More

When asked by Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., whether Trump had asked him to “do anything” about the Russia probe, Pompeo replied, “I don’t recall.”

“I don’t recall what he asked me that day,” Pompeo said. “But I have to tell you, I’m with the president an awful lot. He has never asked me to do anything that I’d consider remotely improper.”

Menendez then asked Pompeo whether Trump had ever discussed the FBI or special counsel’s investigation with him.

“Senator, again, I’m not going to talk about private conversations I’ve had with the president,” Pompeo said, insisting that he wasn’t asserting executive privilege in refusing to discuss his conversations with Trump.

Later, when pressed by Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., about his recollection, Pompeo said, “If he asked me to do something inappropriate, I’d remember.”

Pompeo began the confirmation hearing by declaring that as secretary of state, “job No. 1 is to represent the president.”

And when asked by Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., whether he would resign if Trump were to fire Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, Pompeo said he would not.

“I haven’t given that question any thought, and my instincts tell me no,” he said. “My instincts tell me that my obligation to continue to serve as America’s senior diplomat will be more important at increased times of political domestic turmoil.”

After discussing his belief that previous secretaries of state had stayed the course, Pompeo said he was “confident” that not resigning if there were interference into the special counsel’s investigation was the path that he would take. Coons urged Pompeo to give it some more thought.

Sen. Tom Udall, D-N.M., pressed him on the same question later in the hearing and Pompeo offered the same answer, stating that administration officials did not resign during President Bill Clinton’s impeachment.

Pompeo also repeatedly refused to say whether he agrees with Trump’s characterization of the Mueller investigation as “an attack on our country.”

“These are complex legal issues the special counsel is involved in,” Pompeo said. “I have done my best as CIA director to separate each and every element of it. It is a minefield.”

— With Yahoo News’ Christopher Wilson contributing reporting

Read more from Yahoo News:A day after warning Russia in a tweet that “missiles will be coming” to Syria, President Trump said on Twitter that an airstrike was not necessarily imminent.

“Never said when an attack on Syria would take place,” Trump tweeted early Thursday. “Could be very soon or not so soon at all! In any event, the United States, under my Administration, has done a great job of ridding the region of ISIS. Where is our ’Thank you America?’”

Trump has been weighing U.S. military options in Syria in the wake of Saturday’s chemical attack that killed at least 40 people. Syrian President Bashar Assad is suspected to have ordered the attack as part of an ongoing war against both the Islamic State group and various antigovernment forces. According to the U.N. envoy for Syria, an estimated 400,000 Syrians have been killed since 2011.

Defense Secretary James Mattis said Wednesday that the U.S. and its allies are mulling how to respond to the attack.

“We are still assessing the intelligence, ourselves and our allies,” Mattis said. “We’re still working on this.”

But Trump’s early morning tweet Wednesday suggested U.S. military action was inevitable.

“Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”

The tweet was criticized by some lawmakers and military analysts who questioned the wisdom of the president publicly telegraphing his move — something Trump denounced former President Barack Obama for doing.

President Trump speaks during a meeting with senior military leaders at the White House in Washington, D.C., on Monday. At right is new national security adviser John Bolton. (Photo: Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images) More

On Thursday, Trump also pushed back against a New York Times report that he “sought to fire” special counsel Robert S. Mueller, who is leading the federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.

“If I wanted to fire Robert Mueller in December, as reported by the Failing New York Times, I would have fired him,” Trump tweeted. “Just more Fake News from a biased newspaper!”

Trump has made no secret about his hostility toward Mueller in recent days. Trump has repeatedly assailed Mueller’s probe as “corrupt” and “fake,” while suggesting that it is responsible for “much of the bad blood with Russia.” He has also attacked the former FBI chief as “conflicted.”

Earlier this year, the Times reported that Trump ordered Mueller’s firing last June but “ultimately backed down” after White House counsel Donald F. McGahn II threatened to resign in protest.

This week, CNN reported that Trump is considering firing Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who oversees Mueller, after the FBI raided the office and hotel of Trump’s longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen. Federal agents were reportedly looking for information related to Cohen’s hush-money payment to porn star Stormy Daniels on the eve of the 2016 presidential election, as well as any information related to the “Access Hollywood” tape on which Trump brags on a hot mic about sexually assaulting women.

Trump called the raid a “a total witch hunt.”

“It’s a disgraceful situation,” Trump told reporters before a meeting of military officials at the White House on Monday night. “It’s an attack on our country, in a true sense. It’s an attack on what we all stand for.”

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Mouneb Taim/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images, Ted Aljibe/AFP/Getty ImagesNicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images)On Wednesday, a day of growing peril in a part of the world where Russian and American forces sometimes confront each other, the president who campaigned on never telegraphing his intensions to adversaries decided to taunt Russia with the threat of a missile attack. “Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” President Trump tweeted Wednesday morning as an anxious world watched to see if the Syrian crisis will escalate out of control. “Get ready, Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart.’”

Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018

President Trump’s tweets fly in the face of the norms that even during the Cold War kept the two great nuclear powers from needlessly provoking each other. They risk further inflaming a conflict that has already drawn in regional and world powers in a dizzying nest of alignments. With the common enemy the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) on the brink of defeat, those opposing forces are increasingly coming into conflict as they jockey for position and territorial control inside Syria.

Just this year, U.S. forces in Syria have battled Russian mercenaries who attacked their base, reportedly at the direction of the Kremlin, and killed more than 100 of them. In northern Syria, U.S. troops and their Kurdish allies remain engaged in a tense face-off with the military forces of Turkey, a NATO ally. This week, Israeli warplanes attacked a military base in Syria, where Iran coordinates its militias, killing four Iranian military advisers.

A Syrian child receives medical treatment after the Assad regime forces allegedly conducted a poisonous gas attack in Damascus, April 7, 2018. (Photo: Halil el-Abdullah/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) More

This week’s suspected chemical weapons attack by Syrian forces, which reportedly killed more than 40 people in a rebel-held stronghold near Damascus, and President Trump’s telegraphed determination to respond militarily, have set the escalation cycle spinning even faster.

“The new normal is that President Trump uses Twitter as direct fire to convey his feelings and intent to audiences at home and abroad, bypassing the United States’ entire foreign policy and diplomatic apparatus. It’s now understood around the world that those tweets are a direct pipeline to his thinking, which is an unprecedented and significant development,” said retired Lt. Gen. David Barno, a former senior U.S. commander in Afghanistan, and currently the distinguished practitioner in residence at American University’s School of International Service.

In weighty matters of war, the president’s tweets may offer a direct conduit to the Trumpian id, but they are unfiltered by a careful calculation of U.S. interests and the risks involved, or by a strategy guiding the actions of a great power. Instead, Trump’s tweets and off-the-cuff pronouncements, Barno notes, reveal “a constant tension between U.S. military commanders who want to sustain a military presence in Syria to consolidate their gains from the defeat of ISIS, and a commander in chief who instinctively dislikes U.S. boots on the ground, but is willing to use bombs and missiles to achieve his goals. Those two ideas remain very much in tension in this administration, and I’m not sure that adds up to a strategy.”

Retired U.S. Army Gen. Barry McCaffrey, left, and Gen. Joseph Votel. (Photos: Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images; Samuel Corum/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) More

In the wake of Trump’s recent dismissal of his secretary of state and national security adviser, the administration’s Syrian policy has devolved into incoherence. In January, then Secretary of State Rex Tillerson articulated a Syrian strategy that envisioned an indefinite U.S. military presence to achieve ambitious goals, including removing Syrian strongman Bashar Assad from power, returning millions of Syrian refugees to their homes, rolling back Iranian influence and securing Syrian chemical weapons.House Speaker Paul Ryan shocked Washington by announcing Wednesday that he will not seek reelection, saying he wanted to spend more time with his children. The Wisconsin Republican expressed pride in his party’s accomplishments, which includes delivering on tax-cut promises, and told reporters that House Republicans, considered in danger of losing their majority in November, could run on that record.

The 115th United States Congress formed on Jan. 3, 2017, during the final weeks of Barack Obama’s presidency, and will conclude on Jan. 3, 2019, after two years of Donald Trump in office. Ryan is expected to remain speaker for the remainder of the year, an unusually long lame-duck period for a retiring speaker. Yahoo News contacted political scientists and governance experts to see what such an early announcement means for his remaining time and the GOP’s future.

Nolan McCarty, chair of the department of politics and a professor at Princeton University’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, said there aren’t any recent examples for comparison. He pointed out that John Boehner’s three-week period between announcing his resignation and stepping down was the longest in recent memory.

“The others who resigned were replaced very quickly. You really have to go back to the 1920s, when there was a period in which a speaker was a lame duck for any period of time,” McCarty said. “Before we changed the Constitution, there would be these long lame-duck sessions of Congress between the November elections and the March inaugurations.” The 20th Amendment, ratified in 1933, moved the start of congressional terms from March 4 to Jan. 3.

House Speaker Paul Ryan announces he will not seek reelection in November, April 11, 2018. (Photo: Aaron P. Bernstein/Reuters) More

The unusual nature of lame-duck sessions is why McCarty suspects there may be some pressure on Ryan to resign and allow for a quicker replacement. On the other hand, he said, it took three weeks to replace Boehner because of infighting among the Republican Party’s many factions. The person the party settled on was Ryan.

“I suspect that might still be true, so they might have a difficult time trying to figure out who will replace Ryan. In the meantime, I think he will just hold the office and not accomplish very much,” he said.

Sarah Binder, professor of political science at George Washington University, agreed that Ryan’s exit is unusual for modern American politics. Others speakers have stepped down abruptly amid scandals (Jim Wright­, Newt Gingrich, Bob Livingston) or when their party has lost control (Dennis Hastert, John Boehner). Therefore, she said, history doesn’t provide us with a great roadmap for what to expect going forward.

One possible path for Ryan, Binder said, is continuing to fight for Republican control of the House, which would include fundraising and trying to persuade his fellow Republicans from retiring. But she said there are questions about how effective he can be at that since “he’s just waved the white flag and jumped ship, even though he’s postponed the jumping of the ship.”

Another option, she said, is for Ryan to significantly distance himself from Trump.

House Speaker John Boehner, right, stands with his successor Rep. Paul Ryan in October 2015. (Photo: Andrew Harnik/AP) More

“We do have other retiring Republicans, who once they decided to sever their connection with the voters, have been a little more willing to speak up. Is that Paul Ryan? I don’t know. It depends in part on what he sees as his future,” Binder said.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg dismissed the suggestion by several Republican lawmakers on Wednesday that the social media network is biased against conservative content — but admitted he is worried about the issue of censorship on the platform in general.

“This is one of the areas that, frankly, I’m worried we’re not doing a good job at right now,” Zuckerberg said in his testimony before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The principle that we’re a platform for all ideas is something I care very deeply about. I am worried about bias … and I agree that this is a serious issue.”

Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., cited the recent example of Facebook rejecting a Catholic university’s ad showing Jesus on the cross, which outraged some religious conservatives. The company apologized and subsequently accepted the image.

“That it happened at all is deeply disturbing,” she told Zuckerberg. “Could you tell what was so shocking, sensational or excessively violent about the ad to cause it to be initially censored?”

“It sounds like we made a mistake there, and I apologize for that,” Zuckerberg replied. “With the amount of content in our systems and the current systems that we have in place to review — we make a relatively small percent of mistakes in content review, but that’s too many. And this is an area where we need to improve.”

Zuckerberg continued: “I wouldn’t extrapolate from a few examples to assuming that the overall system is biased. I get how people can look at that and draw that conclusion, but I don’t think that reflects the way we’re trying to build this system or what we have seen.”

The 33-year-old executive said that while the complaints cited by the panel were about conservative content, he hears from both sides.

“I can assure you that there are a lot of folks who think we make content moderation mistakes — and content review mistakes — of liberal content as well,” Zuckerberg said.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg testifies at a House Energy and Commerce hearing on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) More

Appearing before the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committee on Tuesday, Zuckerberg faced pointed questions from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, about Facebook’s perceived liberal bias.

“Does Facebook consider itself to be a neutral public forum?” Cruz asked. “It’s just a simple question. … Do you consider yourself a neutral public forum? Or are you engaged in political speech, which is your right under the First Amendment?”

“Our goal is not to engage in political speech,” Zuckerberg replied.

Cruz said that “there are a great many Americans who, I think, are deeply concerned that Facebook and other tech companies are engaged in a pervasive pattern of bias and political censorship.” Cruz noted that Diamond and Silk, sisters who have become famous for their pro-Trump videos, recently said that their Facebook page was blocked after the site determined it to be “unsafe to the community.”

On Wednesday, Rep. Joe Barton, R-Texas, told Zuckerberg that he has received several questions from constituents about the duo on his own Facebook page.

“Please ask Mr. Zuckerberg why is Facebook biased against conservative bloggers such as Diamond and Silk? Facebook called them ‘unsafe’ to the community,” Barton said, reading one message from his phone aloud. “That is ludicrous. They hold conservative views. That isn’t unsafe.”

“In that specific case, our team made an enforcement error,” Zuckerberg replied. “And we have already gotten in touch with them to reverse it.”

Zuckerberg’s appearances before the congressional panels come in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which exposed personal information from as many as 87 million Facebook users. Cambridge Analytica, a data mining firm used by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, was able to access user data through a third-party quiz app.

Rep. Billy Long, R-La., said his constituents are not concerned about the data breach — but are worried about censorship.

“I represent 751,000 people,” Long said. “I’m not getting the outcry from my constituents about what’s going on with Cambridge Analytica.”

Read more from Yahoo News:When Speaker Paul Ryan announced Wednesday that he would not seek reelection this fall, some on both the left and the anti-Trump right expressed hope that Ryan would now be free to stand up against President Trump.

“With his newfound political freedom,” said Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in a statement, “I hope the Speaker uses his remaining time in Congress to break free from the hard-right factions of his caucus that have kept Congress from getting real things done.”

Ana Navarro, a Republican CNN contributor who has spoken out against President Trump, had a similar reaction: “Paul Ryan has 8 months as Speaker,” wrote Navarro on Twitter. “He’s finally free of political chains. Time to put country over Party. He should remove Nunes from Intel Committee, have a vote on Dream Act, move legislation to protect Mueller, and denounce Trump’s unpresidential actions & words at every turn.”

House Speaks Paul Ryan greets President Trump onstage at the National Republican Congressional Committee March Dinner at the National Building Museum on March 20, 2018, in Washington, D.C. (Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images) More

These comments echo those from many during the 2016 campaign, when Ryan was billed as a “white knight” who could potentially step in and wrest the nomination away from Trump. Instead, Ryan endorsed Trump in June 2016, stating that he felt “confident he would help us turn the ideas in this agenda into laws to help improve people’s lives.” Efforts by the media to discern daylight between the speaker and the Republican nominee on policy went nowhere. The Washington Post declared Trump’s tax plan “Paul Ryan on steroids.”

There is a widespread belief in Washington, unsupported by any evidence, that Ryan, with his measured demeanor and reputation as a deep thinker on policy, is a closet never-Trumper. The speaker has occasionally denounced Trump’s more racist statements, but according to 538’s voting tracker, Ryan has voted with the president 100 percent of the time. Ryan has repeatedly dodged questions about Trump’s tweets and urged others to ignore them.

Ryan has worked in Washington since graduating from college in 1992, and during that time he has built a reputation that seldom aligns with his actions, or even his stated beliefs. His ideological lodestar is Objectivism, a philosophy of radical individualism promulgated by the 20th century writer Ayn Rand, and his main policy agenda has been cutting income taxes, especially on the rich. Ryan has said that he makes his interns read Rand’s novel “Atlas Shrugged,” and told a group dedicated to the author that she’s the reason he got involved in public service.

Ryan’s greatest feat was selling himself as a deficit hawk while continually supporting measures that would cost the federal government money. He was elevated by policy groups and political pundits as a foil to Obama, who adopted the Wisconsin congressman’s claims that the Democratic administration’s additions to the deficit were simply untenable. This did not stop Ryan for voting for deficit expanding programs put forth by President George W. Bush, including tax cuts and Medicare Part D, which analysts have cited as adding hundreds of billions to the deficit.

Studies found that Ryan’s proposed budgets would add trillions to the deficit. During his 2012 vice presidential run, one focus group didn’t believe Ryan’s proposed budget — eliminating Medicare while cutting taxes for the wealthy — was real, simply refusing to “believe any politician would do such a thing.” Still, Ryan was lauded for his proposals, winning a 2010 award for his fiscal discipline from a budget watchdog group and earning Politico’s 2011 “Health Care Policymaker of the Year” honor for his plan to repeal Obamacare.WASHINGTON — House Speaker Paul Ryan’s decision to leave Congress at the end of the year touched off immediate speculation Wednesday about who will replace him as the Republican leader — and about what it means for President Trump and Democratic hopes to retake the House in the coming midterms.

House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., is regarded as the logical choice. He is close to Trump, having courted the president longer than most other high-profile Republicans. The two get along well and talk often.

But the Californian has historically been viewed suspiciously by the most conservative members of Congress.

Early indications from the White House offered a mixed picture. Some officials told Yahoo News that McCarthy has the inside track. One former White House official said either McCarthy or Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana could get Trump’s backing.

“Both Kevin McCarthy and Scalise are very popular with the White House and close to the president,” the ex official said.

One Trump ally said the president prefers House Majority Whip Scalise.

“Scalise … [is] a better story, and DJT loves narratives,” this person said.

Scalise’s story is that he was shot last June in an attack on a congressional baseball practice, surviving a near-fatal wound to the hip. He was one of four people wounded in the shooting, but the only member of Congress. It has made him something of a mythic figure in the House.

Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., who leads the hardline Freedom Caucus, could also make a play for the speakership or one of the other top posts in leadership.

Speaker of the House Paul Ryan announcing his retirement on a press conference on Capitol Hill on April 11. (Photo: Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images) More

One of the most senior Republican members of Congress predicted to Yahoo News that McCarthy would be able to lock up the speakership, or the Republican leadership if Democrats win back the House early next year, after the fall elections. Ryan plans to serve out his term.

It’s likely that the issue won’t be settled for a while.

“Members are in shock and not sure if they really mentally want to go there yet,” said one House Republican leadership aide.

Ryan said he was leaving primarily to spend more time with his teenage children before they leave home. “I did not seek this job. I took it reluctantly. But I have given this job everything I had. And I have no regrets,” he said.

“I think we have achieved a heck of a lot,” he said.

Ryan’s departure is a short-term victory of sorts for Trump. The speaker and the president have worked together since Trump’s election, but were never close or all that comfortable with each other.

Ryan opposed Trump during the Republican primary and waited until June 2016, after Trump had locked up the nomination, to endorse him. A Ryan ally at the time told Yahoo News that the speaker “despises” Trump and “hates his guts.”

Ryan worked with the president to pass tax reform legislation, which nonetheless fell short of Ryan’s hope for a permanent restructuring of the tax code. Ryan has continued to criticize Trump at times, although he hasn’t opposed him on legislation.

The same Ryan ally lamented that the speaker’s retirement was “a casualty of the party surrendering its ground to a celebrity outsider.”

“Ryan is the kind of figure a party should strive to create: ideologically minded but temperamentally moderate, elected in a swing district, worked his way up in Congress, not a flashy performer. He is bowing out to a different model of leadership,” the ally said.

But Ryan may have more freedom to speak his mind now that he is not running for reelection. One prominent conservative Trump critic expressed her hope that Ryan would do so.

“He’s finally free of political chains. Time to put country over Party. He should remove [Rep. Devin] Nunes from Intel Committee, have a vote on Dream Act, move legislation to protect [Special Counsel Robert] Mueller, and denounce Trump’s unpresidential actions & words at every turn,” Ana Navarro said on Twitter.President Trump on Wednesday issued a stern warning to Russia, tweeting that he will direct an air strike at Syria in response to last week’s chemical attack and chastising the Kremlin for its support of Syrian President Bashar Assad.

“Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria,” Trump wrote on Twitter. “Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and ‘smart!’ You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!”

Trump added: “Our relationship with Russia is worse now than it has ever been, and that includes the Cold War. There is no reason for this. Russia needs us to help with their economy, something that would be very easy to do, and we need all nations to work together. Stop the arms race?”

Russia’s military has propped up Assad’s regime as it wages a multiway war against both the so-called Islamic State and various antigovernment forces. According to the UN Envoy for Syria, an estimated 400,000 Syrians have been killed since 2011.

The Russian foreign ministry responded in a Facebook post, saying “smart missiles should fly toward terrorists, not legal government.”

Trump later suggested the “bad blood” between Washington and Moscow has been caused by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller’s ongoing federal investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. The president also called Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, who signed off on Trump’s decision to fire FBI Director James Comey last year, “conflicted.”

Much of the bad blood with Russia is caused by the Fake & Corrupt Russia Investigation, headed up by the all Democrat loyalists, or people that worked for Obama. Mueller is most conflicted of all (except Rosenstein who signed FISA & Comey letter). No Collusion, so they go crazy! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 11, 2018





Trump has been weighing U.S. military options in Syria in the wake of Saturday’s chemical attack that killed at least 40 people. But during a meeting with national security officials at the White House earlier this week, Trump told reporters he would not publicly telegraph his moves — something he criticized former President Barack Obama for doing.

“We’re making decisions as to what we do with respect to the horrible attack,” Trump said Monday. “And it will be met. And it will be met forcefully. When I will not say because I don’t like talking about timing.”

Last week, the White House announced that the U.S. military mission in Syria “is coming to a rapid end.” That was before Saturday’s attack.

Trump lashed out at Russia and Iran for its support of Assad the next day — notably calling out Russian President Vladimir Putin by name.

“President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal Assad,” Trump tweeted. “Big price to pay.”

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: AP Photo/Evan Vucci, File)By Brian Prowse-Gany and Joyzel Acevedo

At the Greenberg Law office in Brooklyn, framed advertisements reading “The Real Call Saul” hang on the walls between tongue-in-cheek posters for movies like “Devil’s Advocate.” A small, wiry-haired man sits at a desk with sheets of notes splayed out before him. “My name is Howard Greenberg,” he says. “I’m a poor excuse for a criminal defense attorney. And that’s everything you need to know.”

Greenberg is no one to mess with: He has garnered a reputation as one of Manhattan’s craziest – and most successful – defense lawyers, having represented roughly 4,000 defendants and produced an unusually high number of acquittals and dismissals in cases where such results were thought to be impossible.

“It would be my privilege to defend a Nazi,” Greenberg says. “It would be my privilege to defend Charles Manson. You don’t go to the Hall of Fame winning easy cases. … You hone your skills defending the dregs of the Earth, so that the occasionally really innocent person gets the benefit of your work.”

Greenberg’s outrageous courtroom tactics and ability to successfully represent the lowest of the low has led to the press dubbing him the real “Better Call Saul.” “I disavow that comparison because Saul routinely cheats,” he says. “And I only cheat from time to time.”

In this week’s episode of Yahoo News’ Unfiltered, we sit down with infamous criminal defense attorney Howard Greenberg, a man who isn’t afraid to defend the worst of the worst and who believes the justice system and the government are far from perfect.

“We are called upon every day to turn water into wine,” Greenberg says of his profession, in which he has labored for almost 30 years. “We get paid to do the impossible, and I say impossible because we go up against the other side and they have all the cards,” he says about the criminal justice system.

“Everything is admissible if the prosecutor wants it,” Greenberg adds, “and nothing’s admissible if the defense attorney wants it.”

One of Greenberg’s most high-profile cases was the murder of 8-year-old Leiby Kletzky by Levi Aron on July 11, 2011. Nicknamed the Butcher of Bensonhurst, Aron kidnapped Kletzky as he was walking to school and subsequently murdered and dismembered him. What was unusual about the crime was that it occurred within the insular, relatively safe Brooklyn Hasidic community.

Levi Aron appears in court for sentencing with his lawyer, criminal defense attorney Howard Greenberg. More

Greenberg, one of several attorneys representing Aron, spurred harsh backlash when he implied that the defendant’s actions resulted from his being a product of inbreeding. “Experts told us to explore the theme [of inbreeding],” he explains. “And when I said that to the press, the whole world went crazy.” One such criticism came from New York state Assemblyman Dov Hikind, who called Greenberg a “miserable, self-hating Jew.”

Such comments seem to slide off Greenberg. “The only way to ensure that the truly innocent person gets a fair shake is to defend the worst among us,” he says. “There’s no such thing as going too far. If you don’t go over the line, you’re not doing your job.”

Indeed, Greenberg is no stranger to taking things to a whole new level when it comes to defending a client, even getting himself admitted to the emergency room the day before a big trial. “I go there for the ancillary purpose of getting one of these,” he says, showing off a medical wristband. “And that will adorn my wrist throughout the pendency of the trial. Sometimes if I have back-to-back trials … I keep it on for months at a time.”

“I want the jury to wonder, why am I wearing this? In my fantasy mind I imagine them .. saying to themselves, ‘My God, this lawyer must be under treatment for cancer. And look how heroic this son of a bitch is here.’”

Even Greenberg’s office freezer plays a role. “You’ll see names on pieces of paper,” he says while looking at thin strips of paper curled up among the ice, explaining that this is part of a plan to “cast spells on my adversaries.”What can we learn about the current debate over guns from earlier public health crises? (Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Getty Images (2); background from top left: Nam Y. Huh/AP, MediaPunch/IPX/AP, Alex Brandon/AP, Joe Skipper/AP, MediaPunch/IPX/AP, Nam Y. Huh/AP, Hoo-me.com / MediaPunch/AP (2), Manuel Valdes/AP)

Survivors of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., joined the chorus of Americans denouncing the National Rifle Association’s (NRA) influence on elected officials over the gun control issue. But will this moment lead to substantive change in the nation’s gun laws, or will it be subsumed into Washington’s larger gridlock — forgotten until the next school shooting, as has happened repeatedly in the past?

There may be a clue in the history of the regulation of another dangerous product, cigarettes. Gun-control groups say the firearms industry is using some of the same tactics the tobacco lobby used to forestall regulations for most of the 20th century, including the suppression of potentially damaging research and casting the issue in terms of “rights” and “freedom.” But the record shows that over the course of several decades, and over the well-funded opposition of a powerful industry, public-health advocates (mostly) prevailed in the battle against smoking.

“The tobacco industry is built on profiting from a product that kills and causes disease for hundreds of thousands of Americans. Unfortunately, the same is true for the gun industry. While there are legitimate uses for firearms — for example in the military — for the most part firearms, particularly assault weapons, are marketed to civilians in a way which increases and continues a legacy of death and injury,” Mark Pertschuk, former president of Americans for Nonsmokers’ Rights and former legislative director of the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, said to Yahoo News.

A study published in the American Journal of Medicine in February 2016 found that Americans are 10 times more likely than citizens of other developed countries to be shot and killed. Researchers from Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the University of Nevada at Reno analyzed World Health Organization mortality data for 23 high-income nations. Though the U.S. only had half the population of the other 22 nations combined, Americans accounted for 82 percent of all gun deaths. Gun-murder rates are 25 times higher in the U.S. than in similar wealthy nations. The U.S. also accounted for 90 percent of all women, young adults (under 25) and children killed with a gun.

The analogy isn’t only to the tobacco industry. Trade groups have clear missions to support the interests of their industries they represent. But public health advocates take issue when misinformation is knowingly propagated and, from their perspective, profits are privileged over people. For instance, Coca-Cola and other soda companies long promoted the notion that exercise rather than healthful nutrition choices could solve the obesity epidemic. They still challenge soda taxes and other initiatives intended to reduce consumption.

Barron Lerner, a professor of medicine and public health at NYU Langone Health, said the tobacco industry’s mission for many years was to obfuscate the data that shows cigarette smoking causes lung cancer. Although the tobacco industry lobbied in Washington, he said, its greatest accomplishment wasn’t buying the cooperation of members of Congress or finding advocates from tobacco-growing states so much as it was complicating the issue — creating enough doubt in the public to delay the implementation of antismoking measures.

“There are historical moments where things get so bad, the carnage is so much and the rhetoric is so absurd that there’s finally movement,” Lerner told Yahoo News. “I think we’re ready for some type of a similar movement in the world of guns.”Some questions about Facebook are too tricky for its chief executive to answer.

In an extraordinary exchange during Tuesday’s testimony before Congress, Mark Zuckerberg hedged on whether the company tracked its users across devices, even when they may not be logged into the social media platform.

Sen. Roy Blunt, R-Mo., asked Facebook’s founder and CEO whether the company collected “user data through cross-device tracking.”

“Senator, I believe we do link people’s accounts between devices, in order to make sure that their Facebook, Instagram and other experiences can be synced between devices.” Zuckerberg said.

Blunt followed up, asking if that included “offline data, data tracking that’s not necessarily linked to Facebook.”

“Senator, I want to make sure that we get this right, so I’m going to have my team follow up with you on this afterwards,” Zuckerberg responded.

“That doesn’t seem that complicated to me,” Blunt responded. “Now you understand this better than I do, but maybe you can explain to me why that’s that complicated. Do you track devices that an individual who uses Facebook has, that is connected to the device that they use for their Facebook connection but not necessarily connected to Facebook?”

“I’m not sure of the answer to that question,” Zuckerberg said.

Photo: Carolyn Kaster/AP More

Pressure has increased for the company to explain its terms of service and data gathering operations since details about the company’s 2016 election cooperation with Cambridge Analytica have become public, and the bulk of Tuesday’s session was devoted to questions about privacy.

In an article published last week by the American Civil Liberties Union, senior staff technologist Daniel Kahn Gillmor argued that Facebook was tracking him even though he wasn’t a member of the social network.

“While I’ve never ‘opted in’ to Facebook or any of the other big social networks, Facebook still has a detailed profile that can be used to target me,” Gillmor wrote. “I’ve never consented to having Facebook collect my data, which can be used to draw very detailed inferences about my life, my habits, and my relationships. As we aim to take Facebook to task for its breach of user trust, we need to think about what its capabilities imply for society overall. After all, if you do #deleteFacebook, you’ll find yourself in my shoes: non-consenting, but still subject to Facebook’s globe-spanning surveillance and targeting network.”

At Tuesday’s hearing, Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., turned the tables on Zuckerberg, asking whether the Facebook founder would be comfortable sharing the name of the hotel where he stayed in Washington the night before.

“No, I would probably not choose to do that publicly here,” Zuckerberg responded.

“I think that may be what this is all about,” Durbin replied. “Your right to privacy. The limits of your right to privacy and how much you give away in modern America in the name of ‘connecting people around the world.’”

Read more from Yahoo News:Facebook founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg told lawmakers on Capitol Hill Tuesday that staffers at the social media giant have been interviewed by members of special counsel Robert Mueller’s office investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.

When asked by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., whether anyone at Facebook had been interviewed by Mueller’s team, Zuckerberg said, “Yes,” adding: “I have not.”

“I want to be careful here because our work with the special counsel is confidential,” Zuckerberg said. “And I want to make sure that in an open session I’m not revealing something that is confidential.”

The 33-year-old initially said the company had been served subpoenas by Mueller’s office before clarifying that he was not aware of whether it had been subpoenaed or was voluntarily cooperating with the probe.

“I actually am not aware of a subpoena — I believe that there may be,” Zuckerberg said. “But I know we are working with them.”

Earlier this year, Mueller charged 13 Russian individuals and three Russian companies with interfering in the U.S. election process in a broad plot that involved the proliferation of so-called fake news and disinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms.

In January, Wired magazine reported that Mueller’s office interviewed at least one Facebook employee who was assigned to Trump’s presidential campaign to help shape his ad messaging on the platform.

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg takes his seat to testify before a joint hearing of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees in Washington on Tuesday. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais) More

Zuckerberg’s appearance before members of the Senate Judiciary and Commerce committees came in the wake of the Cambridge Analytica scandal, which exposed personal information from as many as 87 million users. Cambridge Analytica, a data mining firm used by Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, was able to access user data on Facebook through a third-party quiz app.

A Cambridge Analytica whistleblower, Christopher Wylie, said the company used the information to build psychological profiles in order to target voters with political ads on Facebook.

In written testimony released Monday, Zuckerberg apologized for the Cambridge Analytica breach and a host of other issues related to election interference.

“It’s clear now that we didn’t do enough to prevent these tools from being used for harm as well,” Zuckerberg wrote. “That goes for fake news, foreign interference in elections, and hate speech, as well as developers and data privacy. We didn’t take a broad enough view of our responsibility, and that was a big mistake. It was my mistake, and I’m sorry. I started Facebook, I run it, and I’m responsible for what happens here.”

Read more from Yahoo News:Former FBI director James Comey revealed Sunday night that he was advised by his chief counsel that President Trump could wind up a target of the bureau’s investigation into suspected links between Trump campaign operatives and the Kremlin. That fact, Comey said, was one reason he refused the president’s repeated requests that he publicly clear him of any wrongdoing in the probe.

Comey’s comments came during a wide-ranging interview in which the former FBI chief, who had long prided himself on being above the political fray, unloaded on the president who fired him in unusually personal and caustic terms, describing Trump as a congenital liar who was “morally unfit” to serve in the White House.

In perhaps his most striking remarks, Comey even appeared to call on the American people to vote Trump out of office.

When asked by ABC anchor George Stephanapoulos if President Trump should be impeached, Comey replied: “I think impeaching and removing Donald Trump from office would let the American people off the hook and have something happen indirectly that I believe they are duty bound to do directly. People in this county need to stand up and go to the voting booth and vote their values.”

Comey’s strong language — unprecedented for a former FBI director — could be seen in part as a response to the president’s relentless attacks on him. In just the last few days, as Comey’s about-to-be released book, “A Higher Loyalty,” has begun getting media attention, President Trump has tweeted repeatedly about him, calling Comey a “slimeball,” a “liar” and a “leaker.”

The war of words aside, Comey’s interview was perhaps more significant for shedding new light on the thinking within the FBI about the president’s potential liability in the Russia probe.

When Comey originally told Trump that he was not personally the target of the FBI probe — information that he volunteered at a meeting at Trump Tower on Jan. 6, 2017 — he did so against the advice of his chief lawyer.

President Trump, with Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy, left, greets FBI Director James Comey at a reception on Jan. 22, 2017. (Photo: Joshua Roberts/Reuters) More

“The FBI general counsel was concerned about me in the first instance telling then President-elect Trump he wasn’t under investigation,” Comey said, according to a transcript of the full interview, only portions of which were aired on the Sunday night broadcast. “It — it was— potentially misleading and also would create a duty to correct that. And there was a challenge also with, so what’s the limiting principle? If they ask, ‘Is the vice president under investigation,’ do you answer that?”

Comey described how, nevertheless, Trump repeatedly pushed him to make a public declaration that he was not being investigated by the FBI. Even though he had already privately told congressional committees that Trump was not a target, Comey resisted doing so publicly — in part, he suggested, because of the advice he got from his general counsel. (That general counsel, James Baker, has since been removed from that position.)

“So he [the president] was calling me to tell me how frustrating he found that and it was getting in the way of his ability to make deals for the country,” Comey said. “And he wanted to lift the cloud, he called it a cloud. And so wanted me to get out that he wasn’t under investigation.”

But this time, Comey had become convinced that Trump himself might be engaging in obstruction of justice, especially after the president asked him at one meeting that he “hopes” the FBI could drop its investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn. Comey documented that request — which he said he took as “direction” — in one of several memos he wrote to leave a record of his communications with Trump.

“What part of you is thinking also, ‘I am collecting evidence on the president’?” Stephanopoulos asked Comey.President Donald Trump's senior counselor, Kellyanne Conway, slammed former FBI Director James Comey as a publicity hound who is trying to promote his new book.

"The president is very confounded that this person is always able to divert the spotlight to him," Conway said told ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos on the morning after his exclusive interview with Comey. "He has a very deft way of making things about him."

Conway also referred to Comey's admission that he may have subconsciously expected Hillary Clinton to become the next president when he decided 11 days before the election to announce the reopening of an investigation into her emails.

“He thought the wrong person would win,” Conway said.

PHOTO: Kellyanne Conway appear on 'Good Morning America,' April 16, 2018. (ABC News) More

Stephanopoulos asked Comey in the interview that aired Sunday night, "At some level, wasn't the decision to reveal influenced by your assumption that Hillary Clinton was going to win and your concern that she wins this comes out several weeks later and then that's taken by her opponents as a sign that she's an illegitimate president?"

The former FBI chief responded, “I don’t remember consciously thinking about that, but it must have been because I was operating in a world where Hillary Clinton was going to beat Donald Trump, and so I’m sure that it was a factor,” Comey said. "I don’t remember spelling it out, but it had to have been, that she’s going to be elected president and if I hide this from the American people, she’ll be illegitimate the moment she’s elected, the moment this comes out."

Clinton has said she thinks Comey's announcement about the email probe so close to the election killed her chances of winning.President Donald Trump's senior counselor, Kellyanne Conway, slammed former FBI Director James Comey as a publicity hound who is trying to promote his new book.

"The president is very confounded that this person is always able to divert the spotlight to him," Conway said told ABC News Chief Anchor George Stephanopoulos on the morning after his exclusive interview with Comey. "He has a very deft way of making things about him."

Conway also referred to Comey's admission that he may have subconsciously expected Hillary Clinton to become the next president when he decided 11 days before the election to announce the reopening of an investigation into her emails.

“He thought the wrong person would win,” Conway said.

PHOTO: Kellyanne Conway appear on 'Good Morning America,' April 16, 2018. (ABC News) More

Stephanopoulos asked Comey in the interview that aired Sunday night, "At some level, wasn't the decision to reveal influenced by your assumption that Hillary Clinton was going to win and your concern that she wins this comes out several weeks later and then that's taken by her opponents as a sign that she's an illegitimate president?"

The former FBI chief responded, “I don’t remember consciously thinking about that, but it must have been because I was operating in a world where Hillary Clinton was going to beat Donald Trump, and so I’m sure that it was a factor,” Comey said. "I don’t remember spelling it out, but it had to have been, that she’s going to be elected president and if I hide this from the American people, she’ll be illegitimate the moment she’s elected, the moment this comes out."

Clinton has said she thinks Comey's announcement about the email probe so close to the election killed her chances of winning.Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump's personal attorney, arrives at federal court, Monday, April 16, 2018, in New York. A U.S. judge will hear more arguments about Trump's extraordinary request that he be allowed to review records seized from Cohen's office as part of a criminal investigation before they are examined by prosecutors. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer)

NEW YORK (AP) — Porn actress Stormy Daniels is expected to attend a court hearing Monday where a federal judge is considering how to review materials that the FBI seized from President Donald Trump's personal lawyer to determine whether they should be protected by attorney-client privilege.

At issue is exactly who gets to look at Michael Cohen's seized documents and devices before they are turned over to prosecutors. Attorneys for Cohen say they want first crack. Trump's lawyers say they also want some form of prior review. Another option is to set up a "special master" who will vet the material to determine what is protected and what isn't; that is the Cohen team's second choice.

Prosecutors, who say they raided Cohen's office and hotel room last week as part of an undisclosed crime related to his personal business dealings, prefer the ordinary procedure of reviewing the documents with a panel of prosecutors unrelated to the investigation — a so-called "taint team."

At stake is an investigation that could get at the heart of Trump's longtime fixer and image protector. People familiar with the probe told The Associated Press that agents were seeking bank records, records on Cohen's dealing in the taxi industry, Cohen's communications with the Trump campaign and information on payments made in 2016 to two women who say they had affairs with Trump, former Playboy model Karen McDougal and the porn star Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford.

Lawyers for Cohen filed papers Monday saying investigators "took everything" during raids last week, including more than a dozen electronic devices. They said that prosecutors had already intercepted emails from Cohen and executed the search warrants only after discovering that there were no emails between Trump and Cohen.

One of Trump's lawyers, Joanna Hendon, filed papers late Sunday asking a federal judge to block prosecutors from studying material seized in the raid until Cohen and the president have both had a chance to review those materials and argue which are subject to attorney-client privilege.

"Fairness and justice — as well as the appearance of fairness and justice — require that, before they are turned over to the Investigative Team, the seized materials relating to the President must be reviewed by the only person who is truly motivated to ensure that the privilege is properly invoked and applied: the privilege-holder himself, the President," Hendon wrote.

Hendon proposed yet another level of protections, in which Cohen's lawyers, after finishing their initial review, would then be required to "identify to the president all seized materials that relate to him in any way and provide a copy of those materials to him and his counsel."

She and Cohen's lawyers are due in court Monday afternoon. Daniels' lawyer says she'll be there, too.

Cohen, who has denied wrongdoing, arrived early Monday afternoon. He did not attend Friday's hearing and was then ordered by the judge to appear in court Monday to help answer questions about his law practice.

Trump said Sunday that all lawyers are now "deflated and concerned" by the FBI raid on Cohen.

"Attorney Client privilege is now a thing of the past," he tweeted. "I have many (too many!) lawyers and they are probably wondering when their offices, and even homes, are going to be raided with everything, including their phones and computers, taken. All lawyers are deflated and concerned!"Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump's personal attorney, arrives at federal court, Monday, April 16, 2018, in New York. A U.S. judge will hear more arguments about Trump's extraordinary request that he be allowed to review records seized from Cohen's office as part of a criminal investigation before they are examined by prosecutors. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer)

NEW YORK (AP) — Porn actress Stormy Daniels is expected to attend a court hearing Monday where a federal judge is considering how to review materials that the FBI seized from President Donald Trump's personal lawyer to determine whether they should be protected by attorney-client privilege.

At issue is exactly who gets to look at Michael Cohen's seized documents and devices before they are turned over to prosecutors. Attorneys for Cohen say they want first crack. Trump's lawyers say they also want some form of prior review. Another option is to set up a "special master" who will vet the material to determine what is protected and what isn't; that is the Cohen team's second choice.

Prosecutors, who say they raided Cohen's office and hotel room last week as part of an undisclosed crime related to his personal business dealings, prefer the ordinary procedure of reviewing the documents with a panel of prosecutors unrelated to the investigation — a so-called "taint team."

At stake is an investigation that could get at the heart of Trump's longtime fixer and image protector. People familiar with the probe told The Associated Press that agents were seeking bank records, records on Cohen's dealing in the taxi industry, Cohen's communications with the Trump campaign and information on payments made in 2016 to two women who say they had affairs with Trump, former Playboy model Karen McDougal and the porn star Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford.

Lawyers for Cohen filed papers Monday saying investigators "took everything" during raids last week, including more than a dozen electronic devices. They said that prosecutors had already intercepted emails from Cohen and executed the search warrants only after discovering that there were no emails between Trump and Cohen.

One of Trump's lawyers, Joanna Hendon, filed papers late Sunday asking a federal judge to block prosecutors from studying material seized in the raid until Cohen and the president have both had a chance to review those materials and argue which are subject to attorney-client privilege.

"Fairness and justice — as well as the appearance of fairness and justice — require that, before they are turned over to the Investigative Team, the seized materials relating to the President must be reviewed by the only person who is truly motivated to ensure that the privilege is properly invoked and applied: the privilege-holder himself, the President," Hendon wrote.

Hendon proposed yet another level of protections, in which Cohen's lawyers, after finishing their initial review, would then be required to "identify to the president all seized materials that relate to him in any way and provide a copy of those materials to him and his counsel."

She and Cohen's lawyers are due in court Monday afternoon. Daniels' lawyer says she'll be there, too.

Cohen, who has denied wrongdoing, arrived early Monday afternoon. He did not attend Friday's hearing and was then ordered by the judge to appear in court Monday to help answer questions about his law practice.

Trump said Sunday that all lawyers are now "deflated and concerned" by the FBI raid on Cohen.

"Attorney Client privilege is now a thing of the past," he tweeted. "I have many (too many!) lawyers and they are probably wondering when their offices, and even homes, are going to be raided with everything, including their phones and computers, taken. All lawyers are deflated and concerned!"Something very fishy happened last week. On Friday, we were treated to almost hourly rumors that President Donald Trump’s firing of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein was imminent. This was to be followed by a scheme to either fire or drastically limit the authority of special counsel Robert Mueller.

The cable channels went into overdrive and the newspapers picked up the story. Critics issued dire predictions.

And then exactly nothing happened. So what was this about?

Piecing this together, it’s clear that at midweek, my old pal Steve Bannon managed to get through to Trump, and pitched him on one more trademark Bannon scheme: Fire Rosenstein and cease cooperating with Mueller, citing executive privilege. Bannon also called on Trump to fire lawyer Ty Cobb.

This was first reported by The Washington Post, and then other news mediafound sourcesto confirm that Trump was livid and that the plan was under very serious consideration.

But Rosenstein is still there, and so is Mueller. On Sunday morning, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said she was not aware of any plans to fire either.

A prime source of the leaks keeping this tale alive was surely Bannon himself. He evidently hoped to jam Trump into going along with the scheme. I have not been able to confirm this with Bannon ― he no longer returns my calls ― but this is his signature modus operandi, and he went on the record with the Post to kick it off.



Trump is damned either way. If he fires Rosenstein and Mueller, he hastens his own downfall. If he lets things play out, the waters keep rising.

But as often happens with Bannon’s grand designs, this one backfired. Dithering Republicans, including several senators, were quick to send clear messages to Trump that this move would mark the beginning of the end of his presidency. For the first time, Senate Judiciary Chair Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) agreed to fast-track a bill protecting the special counsel’s independence. And one can only imagine how many Republican senators phoned Trump to warn in private what they have not said publicly.

Video: Senators Push Legislation to Protect Mueller Investigation

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.

Such a bill is unlikely to pass the diehard pro-Trump House, but the threat to fire Rosenstein and Mueller put the Republican Congress in even more jeopardy, after a week in which House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), anticipating a November wipeout, announced that he will not run for re-election.

It’s also clear that the few remaining adults at the White House cautioned Trump not to move against Rosenstein.

Meanwhile, other events intruded to make the timing of any move against the special counsel even more ill-advised. A mother lode of presumably damaging material on Trump is now in the hands of the U.S. attorney in New York and the FBI, thanks to the recklessness of Trump’s longtime personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen. The likelihood is that Cohen himself will face criminal charges and that many of his dealings with Trump are not protected by attorney-client privilege.

Just to add to the complications this weekend, the pile-up of issues facing a president whose trademark is not exactly self-discipline included the bombing of targets in Syria and an apparent 180-degree turn on whether the U.S. should join the Trans-Pacific Partnership after all.

(The TPP, an initiative of President Barack Obama, was long an object of Trump’s scorn. But now, pressure from the farm lobby has led to a pledge by Trump to reverse that decision. This would be one more big defeat for Bannon.)

(Jonathan Bachman / Reuters) MoreSomething very fishy happened last week. On Friday, we were treated to almost hourly rumors that President Donald Trump’s firing of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein was imminent. This was to be followed by a scheme to either fire or drastically limit the authority of special counsel Robert Mueller.

The cable channels went into overdrive and the newspapers picked up the story. Critics issued dire predictions.

And then exactly nothing happened. So what was this about?

Piecing this together, it’s clear that at midweek, my old pal Steve Bannon managed to get through to Trump, and pitched him on one more trademark Bannon scheme: Fire Rosenstein and cease cooperating with Mueller, citing executive privilege. Bannon also called on Trump to fire lawyer Ty Cobb.

This was first reported by The Washington Post, and then other news mediafound sourcesto confirm that Trump was livid and that the plan was under very serious consideration.

But Rosenstein is still there, and so is Mueller. On Sunday morning, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said she was not aware of any plans to fire either.

A prime source of the leaks keeping this tale alive was surely Bannon himself. He evidently hoped to jam Trump into going along with the scheme. I have not been able to confirm this with Bannon ― he no longer returns my calls ― but this is his signature modus operandi, and he went on the record with the Post to kick it off.



Trump is damned either way. If he fires Rosenstein and Mueller, he hastens his own downfall. If he lets things play out, the waters keep rising.

But as often happens with Bannon’s grand designs, this one backfired. Dithering Republicans, including several senators, were quick to send clear messages to Trump that this move would mark the beginning of the end of his presidency. For the first time, Senate Judiciary Chair Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) agreed to fast-track a bill protecting the special counsel’s independence. And one can only imagine how many Republican senators phoned Trump to warn in private what they have not said publicly.

Video: Senators Push Legislation to Protect Mueller Investigation

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.

Such a bill is unlikely to pass the diehard pro-Trump House, but the threat to fire Rosenstein and Mueller put the Republican Congress in even more jeopardy, after a week in which House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), anticipating a November wipeout, announced that he will not run for re-election.

It’s also clear that the few remaining adults at the White House cautioned Trump not to move against Rosenstein.

Meanwhile, other events intruded to make the timing of any move against the special counsel even more ill-advised. A mother lode of presumably damaging material on Trump is now in the hands of the U.S. attorney in New York and the FBI, thanks to the recklessness of Trump’s longtime personal lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen. The likelihood is that Cohen himself will face criminal charges and that many of his dealings with Trump are not protected by attorney-client privilege.

Just to add to the complications this weekend, the pile-up of issues facing a president whose trademark is not exactly self-discipline included the bombing of targets in Syria and an apparent 180-degree turn on whether the U.S. should join the Trans-Pacific Partnership after all.

(The TPP, an initiative of President Barack Obama, was long an object of Trump’s scorn. But now, pressure from the farm lobby has led to a pledge by Trump to reverse that decision. This would be one more big defeat for Bannon.)

(Jonathan Bachman / Reuters) MoreRussia has sent two warships carrying tanks and military equipment towards the Middle East following co-ordinated military action in Syria.

The boats were spotted on The Bosphorus on Sunday, as Vladimir Putin warned that the world would experience ‘chaos’ if Syria was attacked again.

The vessels are believed to be making their way towards the Russian naval base at Tartus on the northern coast of Syria.

Images of the boats and their cargo were posted on Twitter by a naval observer based in The Bosphorus.

Reinforcement for Russia’s campaign continues amid rising international crisis in #Syria: #ВМФ Project1171 #ЧФ BSF Tapir class LST Orsk transits Med-bound Bosphorus en route to #Tartus carrying BTR80 APCs, Ural4320tanker,ambulance,KamAZ trucks & AirborneTroops VDV’s IVECO 4WDLynx pic.twitter.com/rmfsRRVxnJ — Yörük Işık (@YorukIsik) April 15, 2018





Nizhniy Novgorod based Arzamas Machinery Plant manufactured BTR80 is equipped with Pelena 6B jammer designed against radio controlled IEDs. 8×8 wheel amphibious armoured personnel carrier was carried above the deck of Russian Navy’s Black Sea Fleet’s LST Orsk en route to #Tartus pic.twitter.com/KBupul4e0C — Yörük Işık (@YorukIsik) April 15, 2018





#ВМФ Project 1171 #ЧФ BSF Nikolay Filchenkov 152 carried above deck Arzamas Machinery Plant’s BTR-80 APC & GAZ Tigr infantry fighting vehicles during its Mediterranean-bound Bosphorus transit en route to #Tartus #Syria pic.twitter.com/gI9Cc88DcW — Yörük Işık (@YorukIsik) April 13, 2018





A Russian military source claimed that the ships are ‘keeping track at a close distance of US and NATO assault ships and submarines in the eastern part of the Mediterranean Sea’.

Putin’s response

The Russian President has responded furiously to the strikes in Syria, which followed the deadly chemical weapons attack in the city of Douma that left dozens dead.

According to a statement released by the Kremlin, Mr Putin told his Iranian counterpart that the strikes had undermined chances of a political resolution to the conflict.

Russia has supported its ally Syria following co-ordinated air strikes. More

The statement said: ‘Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations.’

Russia has argued that the chemical attack carried out by the Assad regime, which was in breach of international laws against the use of chemical weapons, was faked or staged.

The Assad government has denied responsibility.

MOST POPULAR TODAY ON YAHOO

UK defends its actions

Theresa May and other senior government figures have defended the decision to participate in the military action, after Labour questioned the legality of the bombing raid.

The Prime Minister is expected to face anger in the Commons later today after launching military action without securing the support of Parliament.

A Downing Street spokesperson said this morning: ‘The PM explained that the action the UK has taken with our American and French allies was limited, carefully targeted and designed to alleviate humanitarian suffering, degrade the Syrian Regime’s chemical weapons capability and deter their use in the future.

‘The response was not just to the Douma attack but to a series of devastating assaults on the Syrian people by their government.’

A child is treated in a hospital in Douma, eastern Ghouta in Syria, after what a Syria medical relief group claims was a chemical attack (White Helmets/Handout via Reuters) MoreRussia has sent two warships carrying tanks and military equipment towards the Middle East following co-ordinated military action in Syria.

The boats were spotted on The Bosphorus on Sunday, as Vladimir Putin warned that the world would experience ‘chaos’ if Syria was attacked again.

The vessels are believed to be making their way towards the Russian naval base at Tartus on the northern coast of Syria.

Images of the boats and their cargo were posted on Twitter by a naval observer based in The Bosphorus.

Reinforcement for Russia’s campaign continues amid rising international crisis in #Syria: #ВМФ Project1171 #ЧФ BSF Tapir class LST Orsk transits Med-bound Bosphorus en route to #Tartus carrying BTR80 APCs, Ural4320tanker,ambulance,KamAZ trucks & AirborneTroops VDV’s IVECO 4WDLynx pic.twitter.com/rmfsRRVxnJ — Yörük Işık (@YorukIsik) April 15, 2018





Nizhniy Novgorod based Arzamas Machinery Plant manufactured BTR80 is equipped with Pelena 6B jammer designed against radio controlled IEDs. 8×8 wheel amphibious armoured personnel carrier was carried above the deck of Russian Navy’s Black Sea Fleet’s LST Orsk en route to #Tartus pic.twitter.com/KBupul4e0C — Yörük Işık (@YorukIsik) April 15, 2018





#ВМФ Project 1171 #ЧФ BSF Nikolay Filchenkov 152 carried above deck Arzamas Machinery Plant’s BTR-80 APC & GAZ Tigr infantry fighting vehicles during its Mediterranean-bound Bosphorus transit en route to #Tartus #Syria pic.twitter.com/gI9Cc88DcW — Yörük Işık (@YorukIsik) April 13, 2018





A Russian military source claimed that the ships are ‘keeping track at a close distance of US and NATO assault ships and submarines in the eastern part of the Mediterranean Sea’.

Putin’s response

The Russian President has responded furiously to the strikes in Syria, which followed the deadly chemical weapons attack in the city of Douma that left dozens dead.

According to a statement released by the Kremlin, Mr Putin told his Iranian counterpart that the strikes had undermined chances of a political resolution to the conflict.

Russia has supported its ally Syria following co-ordinated air strikes. More

The statement said: ‘Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations.’

Russia has argued that the chemical attack carried out by the Assad regime, which was in breach of international laws against the use of chemical weapons, was faked or staged.

The Assad government has denied responsibility.

MOST POPULAR TODAY ON YAHOO

UK defends its actions

Theresa May and other senior government figures have defended the decision to participate in the military action, after Labour questioned the legality of the bombing raid.

The Prime Minister is expected to face anger in the Commons later today after launching military action without securing the support of Parliament.

A Downing Street spokesperson said this morning: ‘The PM explained that the action the UK has taken with our American and French allies was limited, carefully targeted and designed to alleviate humanitarian suffering, degrade the Syrian Regime’s chemical weapons capability and deter their use in the future.

‘The response was not just to the Douma attack but to a series of devastating assaults on the Syrian people by their government.’

A child is treated in a hospital in Douma, eastern Ghouta in Syria, after what a Syria medical relief group claims was a chemical attack (White Helmets/Handout via Reuters) MoreBy Lisa Baertlein

LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Domino's Pizza Inc (DPZ.N) is ramping up the food delivery wars, adding online ordering for more than 150,000 new delivery "hotspots" at U.S. parks, beaches and other destinations that do not have traditional addresses.

Executives say the move opens new sales opportunities for the company, a pioneer and dominant player in restaurant delivery, as traditional eateries and supermarkets face pressure from third-party delivery "disruptors" that are flush with venture capital or subject to less stringent expectations when it comes to profits.

"We know that delivery is all about convenience, and Domino's Hotspots are ... all about flexible delivery options," said Russell Weiner, president of Domino's USA.

While customers previously could ask Domino's to deliver to offbeat locations, the initiative establishes set drop-off points that customers can find with the location services on their smartphones.

This will help customers order via Dominos.com and the chain's mobile app, said Dennis Maloney, the chain's chief digital officer. Such orders previously were only available by telephone.

Customers pre-pay the orders, select a location from a menu and have the option to add instructions to help drivers identify them. Domino's texts them order status updates, including estimated arrival times. Customers also supply mobile phone numbers in the event of a hiccup, he said.

Despite the company's name for them, the locations are not wifi hotspots.

Domino's declined to disclose costs related to the project and said it had no immediate plans to hire additional drivers. Roughly 60 percent of its orders are digital and Domino's delivers around 65 percent of overall orders.

U.S. sales from third-party restaurant and grocery delivery services are forecast to nearly double within five years, significantly outpacing growth in the U.S. food industry overall.

Strategy firm Pentallect Inc expects the third-party food delivery industry's sales to grow from $13 billion in 2017 to $24.5 billion by 2022. The firm say the industry has a 13.5 percent annual growth rate, versus the 3 percent rate for the U.S. food industry overall.

Restaurant delivery companies GrubHub Inc (GRUB.N), UberEats and DoorDash, the latter of which has raised funding totaling $722 million, are in a fierce battle to win the segment that was once the domain of national pizza chains like Domino's, Papa John's (PZZA.O) and Yum Brands' (YUM.N) Pizza Hut.

At the same time, Whole Foods owner Amazon.com (AMZN.O), Target Corp-owned (TGT.N) Shipt and Instacart, which has raised about $1 billion, are shaking up the grocery industry with home delivery.

While venture capital firms and deep-pocketed retailers invest heavily in third-party delivery, many restaurant operators are weighing whether it is best to work with outside delivery providers who take a percentage of sales, often 15 to 30 percent, or to spend the money to do it themselves.

McDonald's Corp (MCD.N) is partnering with UberEats for delivery in the United States, even though its stores in China and elsewhere dispatch their own delivery drivers - often on scooters.

Panera Bread Co, which has spent about $150 million on technology that underpins delivery and other services, has built its own U.S. delivery service. It hired 10,000 drivers in 2017 and is on track to do the same this year.

Restaurants lose margin "every time you have more hands in your pocket," Panera CEO Blaine Hurst said, referring to third-party services.

Nevertheless, the chain continues to experiment with third-party delivery companies as it looks for better, more efficient ways to provide the service, Hurst said.

Yum, which also owns the Taco Bell and KFC brands, took a different tack earlier this year, spending $200 million to buy a 3 percent stake in GrubHub.

Related Video: Domino’s Pizza Hopes to Roll Out Self-driving Delivery

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.

(Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)A government watchdog agency concluded that the Environmental Protection Agency violated federal law in spending more than $43,000 to install a private phone booth in EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s office, according to a report obtained by ABC News.

According to the Government Accountability Office, the EPA did not comply with the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act by spending more than $5,000 on the phone booth without notifying Congress.

PHOTO: Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt speaks during an interview with reporters at his office in Washington, July 10, 2017. (Yuri Gripas/Reuters) More

The EPA “was required to notify the appropriations committees of its proposed obligation,” the GAO wrote in the report. “By failing to provide such advance notice, EPA violated section 710” of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act.

The EPA spent more than $43,000 to install a "secure phone booth" in Pruitt's office last year, according to agency documents obtained by the Environmental Integrity Project, a non-partisan and non-profit watchdog group.

Pruitt told a congressional committee he needed the booth to make secure calls to the White House and discuss classified information, but he was unable to tell the lawmakers how often he would use it.

The agency previously declined to publicly provide specific details about the private phone booth and whether it technically meets the requirements of a SCIF — a facility used for secure communications to discuss classified information. The EPA already has at least one SCIF elsewhere in its headquarters.

The agency also found that the EPA violated the Antideficiency Act by spending more than the amount approved by Congress for office renovations.

“Because EPA did not comply with the notification requirement, the funds were not legally available at the time EPA incurred the obligation,” the GAO wrote in the report.

The agency concluded that the EPA should report the violations, which would require a report to the President and Congress, according to federal law.

ABC News has reached out to the EPA for a response.

PHOTO: Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt speaks during an interview with Reuters journalists in Washington, Jan. 9, 2018. (Kevin Lamarque/Reuters, FILE) More

The Government Accountability Office is an independent, nonpolitical government agency that investigates spending of taxpayer money, including complaints of improper spending.

Both the GAO and the EPA’s internal watchdog were asked by members of Congress to look into the cost of Pruitt’s “secure phone booth.”

The EPA internal watchdog put its inquiry on hold while the GAO investigated.

This is a developing story. Please refresh for details.Desiree Linden, of Washington, Mich., wins the women’s division of the 122nd Boston Marathon on Monday, April 16, 2018, in Boston. She is the first American woman to win the race since 1985. (AP Photo/Charles Krupa)

The drought is over.

Desiree Linden endured miserable conditions to win Monday’s Boston Marathon, becoming the first American woman to win the event since 1985. Enduring cold temperatures, brutal winds and a constant rain, Linden finished the 26.2-mile, hilly New England course in an unofficial time of 2:39:54.









Linden had four previous top 10 finishes in the Marathon, including missing out on the top spot by just two seconds in 2011.

Desi Linden lost the Boston Marathon BY TWO SECONDS in 2011. pic.twitter.com/S3ruR63mMX — Nick Zaccardi (@nzaccardi) April 16, 2018





Incredibly, Linden, 34, was able to move ahead of the pack even after slowing down midway through the race as fellow American Shalane Flanagan, the defending New York City Marathon champion, slowed down for a quick bathroom break.

Story Continues

Shalane Flanagan's detour to the port-a-potty. pic.twitter.com/lLLCyLhVYz — Nick Zaccardi (@nzaccardi) April 16, 2018





From there, Linden, who told NBC after the race that she felt “miserable” in the early going, rebounded through the torrential downpour to become the first American woman to win Boston since Lisa Rainsberger.

1985: American Lisa Rainsberger wins the #BostonMarathon. 2018: American Desi Linden wins the #BostonMarathon. The drought is over. : @KlosinskiKyle pic.twitter.com/m9fYmE5B7z — Kevin Liao (@RunLiao) April 16, 2018





Behind Linden, six other Americans rounded out the top 10 with Sarah Sellers finishing second, Rachel Hyland finishing fourth, Jessica Chichester fifth, Nicole Dimercurio in sixth, Flanagan in seventh and Kimi Reed in eighth.

On the men’s side, Japan’s Yuki Kawauchi came out on top with a time of 2:15:53. The 31-year-old Kawauchi is the first Japanese man to win the Boston Marathon since 1987.

More history! Yuki Kawauchi is the first Japanese man to take the @bostonmarathon title since 1987! #BostonMarathon pic.twitter.com/NQ78i6B73Z — NBCSN (@NBCSN) April 16, 2018





With a third-place time of 2:18:35, Shadrack Biwott had the best American finish on the men’s side. Tyler Pennel (4th), Andrew Bumbalough (5th), Scott Smith (6th), Elkanah Kibet (8th) and Daniel Vassallo (10th) also placed in the top 10.

After the race, Kawauchi, who completed his 80th marathon since 2009 on Monday, said he was not affected by the weather.

"For me, these are the best conditions possible," Yuki Kawauchi quipped after the race. — Boston Marathon (@bostonmarathon) April 16, 2018





Others could not say the same. Here’s a closer look at what the runners dealt with:













The conditions were so poor that Linden told NBC that she considered dropping out. However, she reconsidered and ended up breaking a 33-year drought in the process.

– – – – – – –

Sam Cooper is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

• JamesHarrison announces retirement

• 44-year-old pitcher flirts with perfect game

• 49ers star not with team due to domestic violence case

• LeBron suffers rare first-round playoff defeat

John Cena and Nikki Bella have called off their nuptials just weeks before their wedding date.

“While this decision was a difficult one, we continue to have a great deal of love and respect for one another,” the couple, who had been together for six years, said in a statement tweeted out by Bella. “We ask that you respect our privacy during this time in our lives.”

Us broke the news of their split.

The professional wrestlers got engaged in April 2017 on live TV during a couple’s match. Their destination wedding was scheduled for May 5. (In October, they announced that they’d changed the date due their schedules.)

While promoting his movie Blockers, Cena, 40, told PEOPLE about how he already felt married to the 34-year-old Total Bellas reality star.

‘People come up to me and say, ‘I love watching your wife on television.’ And I love that, so that happens to me 10 times before it would be a, ‘Yo man I love your work.’ It’s always, ‘I love watching your wife on television,’” he said, adding that he wished the two had tied the knot “yesterday.”

“I’m already ready to go there and it sounds nice hearing it,” he said of fans calling Bella his wife. “I know that we will have a wonderful future together because I love the way that sounds.”



Today might be a good day for country star Chris Stapleton to play the lottery.

The multi-Grammy-winning artist was up for yet another prestigious award to add to his collection, namely Album of the Year at Sunday night’s 2018 Academy of Country Music Awards, for his release From a Room, Vol. 1.

He did win that award. As Stapleton fans well knew, however, the singer wouldn’t be able to attend the show because his wife, Morgane, was expecting twins any day. So it was no surprise when host Reba McEntire announced that he couldn’t accept the award in person.

But she sent the crowd into a frenzy when she explained that Stapleton’s twin boys had decided to come “a little early.”

Morgane and Chris Stapleton attend the 60th Annual Grammy Awards on Jan. 28, 2018, in New York City. (Photo by Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images for NARAS) More

To make things even more unbelievable, the twins were born on Stapleton’s birthday — April 15 happened to be his 40th!

Next time you think you had a good day, compare it to Chris Stapleton having twins and the #ACMawards Album of the Year win on his birthday. — Whiskey Riff (@WhiskeyRiff) April 16, 2018





Stapleton was also up for Male Vocalist and Entertainer of the Year at the ACM Awards, which were aired live on CBS from Las Vegas. The show came six months after a gunman killed 58 people at a country music festival there in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history.

Read more from Yahoo Entertainment:By Jack Stubbs and Laila Bassam

MOSCOW/DAMASCUS (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin warned on Sunday that further Western attacks on Syria would bring chaos to world affairs, as Washington prepared to increase pressure on Russia with new economic sanctions.

In a telephone conversation with his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani, Putin and Rouhani agreed that the Western strikes had damaged the chances of achieving a political resolution in the seven-year Syria conflict, according to a Kremlin statement.

"Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations," the Kremlin statement said.

Meanwhile, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, told CBS' "Face the Nation" program that the United States would announce new economic sanctions on Monday aimed at companies "that were dealing with equipment" related to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's alleged chemical weapons use.

On Saturday, the United States, France and Britain launched 105 missiles targeting what the Pentagon said were three chemical weapons facilities in Syria in retaliation for a suspected poison gas attack in Douma on April 7.

(For a graphic detailing air strikes on Syria click https://tmsnrt.rs/2EKgAMN)

The Western countries blame Assad for the Douma attack that killed dozens of people. The Syrian government and its ally Russia have denied involvement in any such attack.

The bombings marked the biggest intervention by Western countries against Assad and ally Russia.

French President Emmanuel Macron said on Sunday that he had convinced Trump, who has previously said he wanted to take U.S. forces out of Syria, to stay for "the long term."

The United States, France and Britain have said the missile strikes were limited to Syria's chemical weapons capabilities and not aimed at toppling Assad or intervening in the civil war. Macron said in an interview broadcast by BFM TV, RMC radio and Mediapart online news that he had convinced Trump to focus on the chemical weapons sites.

'HARD FOR US, BUT WILL DO MORE DAMAGE TO THE USA'

Responding to Haley's remarks about the plans for new sanctions, Evgeny Serebrennikov, deputy head of the defense committee of Russia's upper house of parliament, said Moscow was ready for the penalties, according to RIA news agency.

"They are hard for us, but will do more damage to the USA and Europe," RIA quoted Serebrennikov as saying.

In Damascus, Syria's deputy foreign minister, Faisal Mekdad, met inspectors from the global chemical weapons watchdog OPCW for about three hours in the presence of Russian officers and a senior Syrian security official.

The inspectors were due to attempt to visit the Douma site. Moscow condemned the Western states for refusing to wait for the OPCW's findings before attacking.

Mekdad declined to comment to reporters waiting outside the hotel where the meeting took place.

Assad told a group of visiting Russian lawmakers that the Western missile strikes were an act of aggression, Russian news agencies reported.

Russian agencies quoted the lawmakers as saying that Assad was in a "good mood", had praised the Soviet-era air defense systems Syria used to repel the Western attacks and had accepted an invitation to visit Russia at an unspecified time.

Trump had said "mission accomplished" on Twitter after the strikes, though U.S. Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie at the Pentagon acknowledged elements of the program remain and he could not guarantee that Syria would be unable to conduct a chemical attack in the future.

Russian and Iranian military help over the past three years has allowed Assad to crush the rebel threat to topple him.

Though Israel has at times urged stronger U.S. involvement against Assad and his Iranian and Lebanese Hezbollah reinforcements in Syria, it voiced backing for Saturday's air strikes by Western powers.

RISK OF WIDER CONFRONTATION

The leader of Lebanon's Hezbollah said on Sunday that Western strikes on Syria had failed to achieve anything, including terrorizing the army, helping insurgents or serving the interests of Israel.

Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah said the U.S. military had kept its strikes limited because it knew a wider attack would spark retaliation from Damascus and its allies and inflame the region.The US Navy appears to have fooled Russia and Syria with a warship ruse before the strike More

When President Donald Trump threatened to strike Syria, the US Navy only had one destroyer in the region — leading people to assume that it take part in the strike. But when the attack occurred, that ship didn't fire anything — which may have been a distraction ploy. Instead, ships in the Red Sea fired a large portion of the missiles, while Syria and its Russian ally apparently failed entirely to defend it. Russian threats to counter-attack also ultimately came to nothing. When President Donald Trump threatened to send missiles at Syria — despite Russia's promises to counter-attack— all eyes turned towards the US Navy's sole destroyer in the region. But that may have been a trick. Pundits openly

Continue ReadingTo Respond to Syria, the U.S. Needs a Clear Military Strategy | Opinion More

This article originally appeared on Council on Foreign Relations. As the Trump administration deliberates military action to respond to apparent nerve gas attacks in Syria, debate is surging over the merits of punitive strikes. Mona Yacoubian, a senior advisor at the U.S. Institute of Peace, warns that Syria’s Bashar al-Assad is unlikely to be deterred from future attacks by anything less than force that rattles his regime. With President Trump signaling military action, what options are likely on the table?

Continue ReadingAssad's children visited Crimean holiday camp, Russian lawmaker says More

MOSCOW (Reuters) - Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s children last year visited a holiday camp in Russian-annexed Crimea, the RIA news agency cited a Russian lawmaker as saying on Sunday. Assad met a group of Russian lawmakers in Damascus on Sunday after the West launched missile strikes against Syria over a suspected poison gas attack. Lawmaker Dmitry Sablin told RIA that Assad had said his children visited the Artek holiday camp in Crimea last year. Russia annexed the peninsula from Ukraine in 2014, a move that prompted U.S. and European sanctions. “My children were at Artek last year. After the trip they began to understand Russia better,” Sablin quoted Assad as saying. Assad has two sons

Continue ReadingCarrie Underwood hit the stage at the 53rd Academy of Country Music Awards for an dazzling performance of “Cry Pretty.” It was Underwood’s first public appearance since an accident in November, when she fell down stairs in her home. The singer suffered a broken wrist and damage to her face that reportedly required 40 to 50 stitches.

Underwood has been keeping a low profile since the accident, so it was a welcome surprise when she posted a selfie the day before the ACMs. Some people seemed a bit underwhelmed after all the fuss, though.

Whatever damage the tumble did or didn’t do to her face, one thing is for sure: It didn’t affect her vocal cords. Many people were just glad to hear Underwood sing again.

Before Carrie could even read any of the love or hate on Twitter, she had to return to the stage to accept an award with Keith Urban for Vocal Event of the Year. And it was clear she was overwhelmed by the moment. “Thank you for having me, I’m still kind of, like, shaky right now,” Underwood said, holding back tears. “Thank you guys, thank you country radio, fans, oh my gosh, thank you.”

For a full list of winners and everything ACM Awards, visit cbs.com.

Watch Carrie Underwood and Brad Paisley tease Trump with hilarious music parody:

Read more from Yahoo Entertainment:

Tell us what you think! Hit us up on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram — or leave your comments below. And check out our host, Kylie Mar, on Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram.Carrie Underwood performs onstage during the 53rd Academy of Country Music Awards at MGM Grand Garden Arena on April 15, 2018, in Las Vegas. (Photo: Jeff Kravitz/ACMA2018/FilmMagic for ACM)

Four months ago, Carrie Underwood warned fans that her face might look “different” because she was injured in an accident at her house. The country star has kept fans updated on her health since then, but largely kept her face hidden from public view — until Sunday. That’s when the country star made her first public performance since her accident at the Academy of Country Music Awards.

And fans pointed out, with annoyance, that her face looked the same as it did before. Many took to Twitter to publicly complain about Underwood being “dramatic.”

It literally makes me sick that Carrie Underwood made such a big deal about her face needing stitches. Maybe she should come visit my work where people face actual traumatic injuries that are life altering. ‍♀️ #perspective — Casey Bradley (@caseynoel40) April 12, 2018





Really?!? @ACMawards we're giving Carrie underwood a standing ovation for coming back after having stitches in her face and looking -exactly the same- after making a huge ridiculous deal about it? #wayyytoovain — Gena (@oOhsOoHarsch) April 16, 2018





I realize that everyone reacts to events in their lives differently, but Jesus Christ Carrie Underwood, some ppl are actually disfigured in accidents, you were not. Time to work on yourself if a scar like that literally makes you afraid to show your face. — Jana (@Janarchy29) April 6, 2018





The whole Carrie Underwood not revealing her face thing, is beyond dramatic — ❀Queen Bee❀ (@xoQueen_Beexo) April 10, 2018





I have to say, I am a little disappointed in all the hype Carrie underwood gave up about her face and how it’s going to look different. She looks the same to me in every way. It shows how vein these celebs are. And I’m a Carrie fan too. I’m just saying #ACMawards — Becky (@BeckyDanehey) April 16, 2018





Is anyone else getting REALLY annoyed by all this poor pitiful me, vain, unnecessary Carrie Underwood face injury nonsense? Just me? Ok. — Reagan Ellis (@ReaganHammEllis) April 15, 2018





Wait. I think I see it. No, that’s a mole. Wait, THERE it is. Oops. That’s glitter. Adore you Carrie Underwood, but your face looks the same. You killed it tonight, but why all the secrecy? If you have a scar, show it off! Inspire young girls to be proud of the skin they’re in. pic.twitter.com/F5gAxwnj1g — Jessica Wauhop (@JessAWauhop) April 16, 2018





Underwood’s accident happened back in November, when she fell down some stairs outside of her home and had to get more than 40 stitches in her face, the singer told fans in a January fan letter obtained by People. In the letter, Underwood said that there was “another part of the story that I haven’t been ready to talk about since I have still been living it and there has been much uncertainty as to how things will end up. It’s crazy how a freak random accident can change your life.”

Underwood also revealed that she was “not quite looking the same,” before adding, “I am determined to make 2018 amazing and I want to share things with you along the way. And when I am ready to get in front of a camera, I want you all to understand why I might look a bit different.”

Since then, the singer has kept her face largely hidden on social media. But she offered a few glimpses on Instagram leading up to her ACM performance.

Fans have since gone on Underwood’s Instagram account to complain about feeling duped.

“Carrie played us!! I was expecting Al Capone scar!!!” one wrote. Another said, “The hype over stitches was way over the top, people deal with that and more every day.”

It may seem odd that people are reacting so strongly to the experience of someone they don’t even know, but it happens with celebrities, according to licensed clinical psychologist John Mayer, the author of Family Fit: Find Your Balance in Life. People tend to form attachments to celebrities as a form of hero worship, he tells Yahoo Lifestyle — and when celebrities act in a way that people don’t like, they can become disappointed. In this case, some people feel that Underwood tricked them by implying that her injury was worse than it appears to have been.

And Calif.-based psychotherapist Mayra Mendez tells Yahoo Lifestyle, “The anticipation was for a change, something dramatic, for some kind of disfigurement, perhaps, because she was gone from the public eye for so long. The expectation was not matched, and people felt betrayed.”Tourists find bullet-riddled body on Acapulco beach More

Chilling pictures of a man lying dead in the sand in crime-plagued Acapulco encapsulates the brutal violence gripping the once-idyllic tourist hotspot in Mexico. Tourists found the unnamed man’s body floating face-down in the water off Caletilla Beach after a suspected shooting. Armed troops and forensics personnel were seen carrying the body off the tourist-packed sands, on Mexico’s Pacific coast. One soldier had to stop a lifeguard from taking a picture of the corpse on the sands which have become all too accustomed to such brutality. It is unclear how the man died but Guerrero state, like many others in Mexico, has long been crippled by gang and drug violence. More than 25,000 murders were

Continue ReadingJames Comey’s ABC Interview Has Furious FBI Insiders Lashing Out More

James Comey’s first interview since President Trump fired him as director of the FBI has enraged his former agents who deluged the Daily Beast with their disdain as they watched him spin his side of the story to George Stephanopoulos on Sunday night. The Daily Beast communicated with seven current or former FBI agents and officials throughout and immediately after the broadcast. There was a lot of anger, frustration, and even more emojis—featuring the thumbs-down, frowny face, middle finger, and a whole lot of green vomit faces. One former FBI official sent a bourbon emoji as it began; another sent the beers cheersing emoji. The responses became increasingly angry and despondent as the hour-long

Continue ReadingThe following is the transcript of the ABC News exclusive interview.

Continue ReadingFormer FBI Director James Comey gave a no-holds-barred interview on Sunday night in which he called Donald Trump “morally unfit to be president” and a liar who possibly obstructed justice.

Comey, speaking to ABC News’ George Stephanopoulos, touched on many of the scandals that have plagued the Trump administration over the past 16 months, including the Russia dossier and the litany of sexual misconduct allegations leveled at the president.

“A person who sees moral equivalence in Charlottesville, who talks about and treats women like they’re pieces of meat, who lies constantly about matters big and small and insists the American people believe it, that person’s not fit to be president of the United States, on moral grounds,” Comey said.

Highlights from the interview include: Trump may be vulnerable to Russian blackmail. “I think it’s possible. I don’t know. These are more words I never thought I’d utter about a president of the United States, but it’s possible.”

The president “treats women like they’re pieces of meat.”

In regards to Trump asking Comey to drop his investigation into former national security adviser Michael Flynn, there was “certainly some evidence of obstruction of justice.”

Comey said Trump was “of above average intelligence who’s tracking conversations and knows what’s going on.”

“I don’t think he’s medically unfit to be president. I think he’s morally unfit to be president.”

He said Trump “will stain everyone around him. And the question is, how much stain is too much stain...”

Trump was obsessed with disproving allegations that he paid prostitutes to urinate on a bed in a Moscow hotel room. Comey recalled the president asking “Do I look like a guy who needs hookers?”

The interview comes just days before the release of his highly anticipated book, A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership, which has already sold close to 200,000 copies.

As the interview continued, Comey appeared to have no fondness for the man who fired him last May.

“The challenge of this president is that he will stain everyone around him,” he told Stephanopoulos. “And the question is, how much stain is too much stain and how much stain eventually makes you unable to accomplish your goal of protecting the country and serving the country?”

The former FBI director said, however, he’d still be working for the government had he not been removed. “I was dreading it,” Comey said, noting he’d be “an unhappy F.B.I. director, but in a way proud of the organization and in my role in trying to protect it.”

“The challenge of this president is that he will stain everyone around him,” Comey said in the interview which aired Sunday. (ABC News via Getty Images) More

Comey also recounted his conversation with Trump in which he said the president asked him to drop an investigation into then-national security adviser Michael Flynn. Trump has denied doing so and threatened to release “tapes” of the conversation to prove so.

Comey reiterated that he hoped such tapes existed and said the secretive nature of the meeting might imply Trump knew he was flouting convention. “If he didn’t know he was doing something improper, why did he kick out the attorney general and the vice president of the United States and the leaders of the intelligence community? I mean, why am I alone?”

“I’d be a crazy person to make it up,” he continued.

Stephanopoulos also asked if Comey believed the president obstructed justice, to which he replied: “Possibly.”Austrian singer Conchita Wurst has revealed that she is living with HIV, after an ex-partner threatened to make the information public.

Wurst, a drag queen who rose to international prominence when she won the popular European singing competition the Eurovision Song Contest in 2014, wrote on her Instagram profile she has been “HIV positive for many years.”

“This is actually irrelevant to the public, but an ex-boyfriend is threatening to go public with this private information, and I will not give anyone the right to frighten me or affect my life,” Wurst wrote.

Trending: Michael Cohen Made Threats to Kill Off Donald Trump Jr. Affair Story and Succeeded, Report Says

GettyImages-492467634 More

Thomas Lohnes/Getty Images

Combatting the misconception that HIV is a death sentence, the singer said that she has been receiving treatment for the condition for many years without interruption. As a result, she is below the detection limit of the virus and is unable to pass it on.

Wurst said that she did not go public with the information because it is only relevant to those she has sexual contact with. She also wanted her loved ones to avoid the unwarranted stigma of having a relative with HIV, but said they have supported her “unconditionally since day one.”

“I hope to build up courage and take another step against the stigmatization of people who have become infected by HIV, either through their own behavior or through no fault of their own.”

Don't miss: Protesters Storm Starbucks Where Two Black Men Were Arrested For Not Placing An Order

“To my fans: the information about my HIV status may be new to you – my status is not!"

She thanked fans for their support, and said she feels "stronger, more motivated and liberated than ever."





HIV campaigners have slammed her ex-partner’s actions, but praised Wurst for the “dignity” with which she has dealt with the situation.

Most popular: Carolina Reaper: How to Safely Eat the World's Hottest Chili Pepper

Ian Green, chief executive of the sexual health charity the Terrence Higgins Trust, said: "The decision to talk openly about your HIV status should be a personal one and not taken away or ever, ever used as a threat. Threatening to reveal someone's HIV status, under any circumstances, is entirely wrong. What other health condition would be used as blackmail against someone? And we know this isn't something which only happens to those in the public eye.

"Despite all the medical advances we've made in the fight against HIV, in treatment and in testing, Conchita's Instagram post highlights how much more we have to do to tackle the abhorrent stigma which still surrounds the virus.

"We applaud Conchita for handling this with such dignity and including in her post that people living with HIV who are on effective treatment, like her, can't pass the virus on. This is because HIV medication works by shrinking the amount of virus in the blood to undetectable levels, which both protects the immune system from damage and prevents HIV from being passed on to anyone else.

“Conchita has done so much good since winning Eurovision four years ago, and has shown her strength of character once again in her handling of this situation.”

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekVIENNA (Reuters) - Conchita Wurst, the bearded Austrian drag queen who became a gay rights icon after winning the Eurovision Song Contest in 2014, said in an Instagram post late on Sunday that she is HIV-positive.

"I have been HIV-positive for many years," the 29-year-old pop singer, whose real name is Tom Neuwirth, told her nearly 300,000 followers, adding that she had been forced into revealing her status by a former partner.

"This is actually irrelevant to the public, but an ex-boyfriend is threatening to go public with this private information, and I will not give anyone the right to frighten me or affect my life," Wurst said.

The singer, whose distinctive look combines long dark hair, painted nails and groomed black beard, shot to fame after winning the long-running music contest with power ballad "Rise Like a Phoenix".

She was later invited to perform at the United Nations and hailed by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for fighting discrimination.

Wurst said her treatment for HIV, which is spread when infected fluid enters the bloodstream, was going well.

"Since I received the diagnosis, I have been in medical treatment, and for many years without interruption I have been below the detection limit, which means I am unable to transmit the virus," Wurst said on Instagram.

More than 70 million people globally have been infected with the HIV virus and 35 million have died since the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the 1980s, according to the World Health Organisation.





(Writing by Patrick Johnston in London; Editing by Catherine Evans)President Trump now demands to see the material that the FBI seized from Michael Cohen's office during their raid and a new poll shows latest numbers ahead of the midterm elections.Trump: Attorney client privilege 'a thing of the past' More

Washington (CNN)In a Sunday morning tweetstorm, President Donald Trump voiced concern for his lawyers in the wake of an FBI raid on his personal attorney Michael Cohen's home, office and hotel room last week, writing, "Attorney Client privilege is now a thing of the past." "I have many (too many!) lawyers and they are probably wondering when their offices, and even homes, are going to be raided with everything, including their phones and computers, taken. All lawyers are deflated and concerned!" he added. The Department of Justice announced on Friday that Cohen had been "under criminal investigation" for months in New York relating to his business dealings. CNN reported Friday that the FBI seized

Continue ReadingSen. Graham calls Michael Cohen an idiot More

In an interview with CNN's Jake Tapper, Stormy Daniels' attorney Michael Avenatti said he "couldn't agree more" with Sen. Lindsey Graham's comments made to Fox News radio that President Trump's personal attorney, Michael Cohen, is an idiot for recording conversations which were later seized by investigators.

Continue ReadingYou dont mind slowing down today if theres a viable reason to do so. In fact, youre happy to apply the brakes so you can enjoy the scenery, rather than racing through the landscape so fast. Ironically, working within the current restraints creates a feeling of safety now. Knowing that the structures in your life are solid empowers you to consider undertaking a substantial project. Philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote, The world of reality has its limits; the world of imagination is boundless. Get Your Complete Cosmic ProfilePresident Donald Trump is upset about something.

In a tweet Monday morning, Trump fired off a somewhat perplexing thought about China, Russia, currency devaluation, and U.S. monetary policy. All in just 116 characters.

“Russia and China are playing the Currency Devaluation game as the U.S. keeps raising interest rates,” Trump said. “Not acceptable!”

Russia and China are playing the Currency Devaluation game as the U.S. keeps raising interest rates. Not acceptable! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2018

President Donald Trump. More

The central complaint in Trump’s tweet seems to be that the U.S. dollar — which has been falling from a 13-year high since the election — is falling as a result of the “Currency Devaluation game” that the President believes China and Russia are playing.

The Chinese yuan, however, has gained about 8% against the U.S. dollar since the election. Were the Chinese devaluing their currency, the yuan would be weaker against the dollar.

The decline in the dollar against the yuan indicates that the Chinese government is not likely engaging in a “Currency Devaluation game” as charged by President Donald Trump. (Source: Yahoo Finance) More

The ruble, meanwhile, weakened sharply against the dollar earlier this month when the U.S. announced a new round of economic sanctions against Russia. This also sent Russian stocks lower as well as ruble-denominated debt.

Since the election, however, the dollar is still down about 4% relative to the ruble.

The ruble has recently weakened against the dollar, but is still stronger relative to where it was before the Presidential election. (Source: Yahoo Finance) More

That either Russia, China, or both, are engaged in a wholesale program to devalue their currency to make U.S. exports less competitive — and thus increase the size of the U.S. trade deficit — seems unlikely given these moves.

Over the long term, the value of a country’s currency does reflect the strength of its economy. Shorter-term market and economic dynamics, however, can cause the kinds of depreciation we’ve seen in the dollar recently. Earlier this year, Trump said that he does prefer a strong dollar.

On this background, then, the dollar’s weakness is perhaps being interpreted by Trump as a sign that the U.S. economy is doing poorly and that markets are not rewarding him for what he in January called the “unprecedented economic success and wealth creation that has taken place over the last 12 months.”

Additionally, Trump has made an economy boogeyman out of China with tit-for-tat trade announcements earlier this month roiling financial markets.

A Federal Reserve complaint?

There is, however, a second possibility for interpreting Trump’s tweet. And that is to see it as a complaint about the Federal Reserve’s recent decision and likely future decisions to raise interest rates.

In March, the Fed raised its benchmark interest rate target by 0.25% to a range of 1.5%-1.75%. This set the effective fed funds rate, or the benchmark interest rate at which banks lend money to one another on a short-term basis, at 1.63%, the highest since September 2008.

Additionally, the Fed’s latest projections about the economy and policy released with its March announcement indicated that at least two more interest rate hikes are likely this year.

All else equal, higher interest rates should increase the value of the dollar relative to other currencies.

But a combination of the recovery in other developed economies outpacing U.S. economic growth, expectations for tighter monetary policy in Europe, the dollar unwinding a historic run-up seen from late-2014 through mid-2016, and the U.S. government increasing debt issuance after the tax cuts passed by the Trump administration last year, the dollar has been falling.By Sruthi Shankar

(Reuters) - U.S. stocks rose on Monday, with technology and healthcare shares leading the way as investors appeared less concerned about possible retaliation for the U.S.-led missile attack in Syria.

The weekend's air strikes marked the biggest intervention by Western countries against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his ally Russia, which is facing further economic sanctions over its role in the conflict.

The gains on Wall Street were broad-based as investors shifted their focus to the corporate earnings season, which is expected to get a big boost from the U.S. tax reforms.

S&P 500 companies are expected to report an 18.6 percent jump in first-quarter profit on average, the biggest rise in seven years, according to Thomson Reuters data.

"People are optimistic in the earnings season ... but there are a lot of forces working in the market - technicals, earnings and geopolitics, which is the biggest wild card," said J.J. Feldman, portfolio manager at Los Angeles-based Miracle Mile Advisors.

At 12:58 p.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) was up 282.95 points, or 1.16 percent, at 24,643.09, the S&P 500 (.SPX) was up 26.01 points, or 0.98 percent, at 2,682.31 and the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) was up 60.76 points, or 0.85 percent, at 7,167.41.

Merck (MRK.N) rose 2.5 percent after the company presented positive data on its cancer drug Keytruda, driving a 0.7 percent gain in the healthcare index (.SPXHC).

Technology stocks (.SPLRCT) gained 0.9 percent.

"Tech and healthcare may be two sectors trading below their 20 year PEs, meaning there is still value in those sectors," Feldman said.

Shares of optical components makers, including those of Acacia Communications (ACIA.O) and Oclaro (OCLR.O), took a beating after Reuters reported that the U.S. government was banning American companies from selling components to Chinese telecom equipment maker ZTE Corp <0000063.SZ> <0763.HK>.

JB Hunt Transport Services (JBHT.O) jumped 5.5 percent after the trucking company's profit topped estimates.

Bank of America (BAC.N) posted marginal gains after reporting a better-than-expected increase in quarterly profit.

Netflix (NFLX.O) fell more than 1 percent. The company is expected to reports results after the closing bell on Monday.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the NYSE for a 2.79-to-1 ratio and on the Nasdaq, a 1.81-to-1 ratio favored advancers.





(Reporting by Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)President Donald Trump resumed his efforts to put his own stamp on the Federal Reserve, nominating one person for vice chair and another for a governor's position.

The nominees are Richard Clarida, a Columbia University economist and global strategic advisor at bond giant Pimco who was tapped for vice chair, and Michelle Bowman, Kansas bank commissioner, who the president picked for an open governor's spot.

Both appointments had been rumored for month and come as Trump is trying to fill four vacancies at the central bank. One nominee, Marvin Goodfriend, faces an uncertain future as the name has been stuck in the Senate for months.

Clarida's nominee is key in that he will be the chief deputy for new Fed Chairman Jerome Powell. The position has been vacant since Stanley Fischer left in October.

The nomination could come at a critical time as the Fed is in the midst of normalizing policy after the extreme measures taken in the wake of the financial crisis. The Federal Open Market Committee, of which both nominees would be voting members, approved a quarter-point rate hike in March.

This story is developing. Please check back for updates.





More From CNBC

Amazon has shelved plans to sell and distribute pharmaceutical products through Amazon Business, its marketplace for business customers.

The biggest challenges include complexities around selling in bulk to large hospitals and building a logistics network to handle pharma delivery.

Amazon could still get into the pharma space in another way, as it still has multiple teams working on health care, including Alexa and the secretive Grand Challenge team, sometimes referred to as "1492."

Amazon Business, which sells bulk items to business customers, has shelved its plan to sell and distribute pharmaceutical products after considering it last year, according to people familiar with the matter.

Instead, the company is focused on selling less sensitive medical supplies to hospitals and smaller clinics through Amazon Business — and it has found that business to be more challenging than expected.

The setback illustrates the challenges of getting into the medical supply and pharmaceutical space, even for a company as big as Amazon AMZN . Several healthcare and pharmaceutical distribution companies saw their stock take a nose dive following recent reports of Amazon potentially getting into the space, but it will likely take some time before those concerns turn into real threats.

The change in plan comes partly because Amazon has not been able to convince big hospitals to change their traditional purchasing process, which typically involves a number of middlemen and loyal relationships.

Moreover, Amazon would also need to build a more sophisticated logistics network that can handle temperature-sensitive pharmaceutical products, according to these people.

Still, Amazon hasn't completely ruled out getting into the pharma distribution space eventually. Multiple reports have speculated that the company will someday add a direct-to-consumer prescription drug business. Amazon Business could also re-consider getting into the pharma space once it gains more scale, multiple people said.

Meanwhile, the company continues to explore other healthcare projects through different teams across the company, including Alexa and the secretive Grand Challenge team, sometimes referred to as "1492."

Harder than expected

Amazon has been selling medical products like glucometers, gloves and stethoscopes into medical clinics for several years. It now has the necessary licensing in 47 out of 50 states and the District of Columbia, according to its website .

But Amazon has struggled to land contracts with large hospital networks, despite convening an advisory board that includes major hospital executives, according to two people familiar. These groups of hospitals have longstanding contracts with distributors, like Cardinal Health CAH and McKesson. MCK Many hospitals also own a stake in entities called group purchasing organizations that negotiate on their behalf, leveraging their collective negotiating power.

In addition, Amazon isn't yet selling products considered high-risk, known as "Class III" devices. For instance, it's not selling anything that needs to be implanted into the human body and sustains life, like a pacemaker. Some large hospitals have been reluctant to move over to Amazon in part because it lacks these products.

An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC, "As we've developed Amazon Business, we've used our working-backwards methodology for consumers and applied it to the needs of business customers and sellers. One of the ways we do this is convening advisory boards from across the industry to give us feedback so we can continue innovating on behalf of customers."

The health care supply chain is well-entrenched and will be hard to break into, according to one expert. "The hospital and health care systems have entangling alliances with their existing purchasing and supply chain partners," said Tom Cassels, head of strategy and business development at Leidos Health. "It's very difficult to replicate the Amazon buying experience in healthcare," he said.

For now, the sweet spot for Amazon Business in health care is smaller practices, such as dental offices, freestanding ambulatory surgery centers and small physician practices, where the licensed providers appreciate the convenience and affordability.

Even then, several of the physicians interviewed by CNBC said they were sticking with their existing distributor for most supplies, but relying on Amazon for some items, or in emergencies.

Amazon told CNBC that it serves health practices of all sizes: "Amazon Business serves healthcare customers of all sizes, from large IDNs [integrated delivery networks, meaning systems that provide both medical services and a health insurance plan to patients] to small- and medium-sized community hospitals. We also serve customers from physician and dental offices to senior living and long-term care facilities."

Story ContinuesThe future of the media industry is on the line as U.S. District Judge Richard Leon decides if AT&T should be able to acquire Time Warner.CBS's 60 Minutes ran the conclusion of its seven-month-long investigation on Sunday night (April 15) that revealed budget carrier Allegiant Air’s long history of mid-flight trouble and aborted take-offs.

Steve Kroft, 60 Minutes correspondent, and the show’s producers found that the carrier experienced an “alarming number” of issues between January 1, 2016, and October 31, 2017, that pointed to it being the “most dangerous” airline in the U.S.

“We found more than 100 serious mechanical incidents, including mid-air engine failures, smoke and fumes in the cabin, rapid descents, flight control malfunctions, hydraulic leaks and aborted take-offs," Kroft said.

Trending: German Rappers Whose Auschwitz Lyric Drew Anti-semitism Accusations Claim Top Music Prize

RTR30AXH More

Reuters

During the investigation, Kroft spoke to several passengers who had travelled onboard Allegiant Air flights. The five, who were interviewed on camera, detailed experiences ranging from disappointment to anger to trauma. However, despite the frequency of the incidents, Kroft notes that Allegiant has never experienced a fatal accident.

John Goglia, the former presidential appointee to the National Transport Safety Board, said the low-budget airline’s record of 60 unscheduled landings and 46 in-flight emergencies was “very, very high for an airline of its size.”

Don't miss: Russia And Syria Denying Chemical Attack Investigators Access To Douma: U.K. Officials

"I hate to make comparisons, but we've seen that before in airlines that are no longer with us that had experienced a number of accidents and killed a bunch of people," he said, before adding that he would tell his friends and family not to fly with the carrier.

This is the response to the @60minutes piece that Allegiant is sending to customers (as a link to a PDF in a Dropbox folder). pic.twitter.com/lfhxOQOD5H — Jon Ostrower (@jonostrower) April 16, 2018





Most popular: Two Shark Attacks in One Day Reported Near Top Surfing Competition

In response to the investigation, Allegiant issued a statement on Sunday night, in which they called the report “grossly misleading” and noted that the story was instigated by a “terminated employee currently involved in a lawsuit seeking money damages from the company."

Captain Eric Gust, Allegiant Air's vice president of operations, said: "The story is outdated, bears no resemblances to the Allegiant I know, and shows a real and troubling misunderstanding of the FAA’s rigorous oversight of Allegiant and all U.S. airlines, which is truly the worldwide gold standard in transportation safety."

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekAn Allegiant Airlines jet flies out of Las Vegas Airport in USA (Photo by Nick Potts - PA Images/PA Images via Getty Images)

The parent of Allegiant Airlines dropped following a “60 Minutes” segment detailing a high number of what the program called “midair breakdowns” at the budget carrier.

“Public documents show an alarming number of aborted takeoffs, cabin-pressure loss, emergency descents and unscheduled landings,” according to a report the CBS program aired Sunday evening.

The segment included interviews with shaken passengers and prominently featured a former member of the National Transportation Safety Board, John Goglia, who said he discourages family and friends from flying the carrier. Almost 30 percent of Allegiant’s planes are “antiquated” McDonnell-Douglas MD-80 aircraft, the program said.

Allegiant Travel Co. dropped 5.1 percent to $143.30 at 9:33 a.m. in New York. That followed an 8.6 percent decline on Friday in anticipation of the “60 Minutes” segment, the most since late April 2017.

More from Bloomberg.com: Warship Ruse and New Stealth Missiles: How the U.S. and Allies Attacked Syria

“We found little in the way of incrementally negative data points concerning Allegiant’s operational challenges over the past few years,” Joseph Denardi , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a note to investors. “The bottom line is that, true or false, that was 30 minutes of horrible publicity for Allegiant with sound bites that will extend the story.”

Allegiant responded that it emphasizes safety, meets all federal requirements and that the “60 Minutes” report dealt with old incidents that had been investigated by the Federal Aviation Administration.

More from Bloomberg.com: How 105 Missiles Show Assad’s Future Is Safe

“Safety is at the core of every aspect of our operation, every day,” Eric Gust, the airline’s vice president of operations, wrote to customers. “Allegiant complies with all FAA requirements and participates in numerous voluntary safety programs to ensure we operate at the highest possible standard.”

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Allegiant Tumbles Following ‘60 Minutes’ Report on ‘Midair Breakdowns’ on bloomberg.comKinder Morgan Inc KMI is expected to post first-quarter 2018 results on Apr 18.



Last quarter, the company delivered an earnings surprise of 16.7%. Moreover, Kinder Morgan delivered an average positive earnings surprise of 4.6% in the last four quarters. Let’s see how things are shaping up prior to the announcement.



Which Way are Estimates Treading?



Let’s look at the estimate revisions to get a clear picture of what analysts are thinking about the company before earnings release.



The Zacks Consensus Estimate of 21 cents for the first quarter has been stable in the last 30 days. It reflects improvement of about 23.5% from the year-ago quarter.



Further, analysts polled by Zacks expect revenues of $3,482 million for the impending quarter, showing an increase of 1.7% from the prior-year quarter.



Factors to Consider



Kinder Morgan has the largest network of natural gas pipelines in North America, spread over almost 70,000 miles. Notably, the company’s midstream properties are linked to all the prospective plays in the United States, rich in natural gas.



These extensive networks of natural gas pipelines, for which the company has invested billions of dollars, provide stable fee-based revenues. In fact, Kinder Morgan expects 85% of its cash flow generation to come from fees charged for midstream properties over the coming quarters. The revenues from midstream properties will be reflected in the quarterly results.



However, Kinder Morgan’s weak balance sheet is a concern. As of fourth-quarter 2017, total debt — short and long term — is pegged at $34 billion. Debt capitalization ratio of 49.9% is higher than the industry’s ratio of 48.2%, which depicts the company’s significant exposure to debt. The company may face liquidity issues, if its debt continues to increase.



Moreover, the company’s Trans Mountain pipeline is plagued by uncertainties. The company has deferred bulk of work on its $5.8 billion Trans Mountain pipeline expansion and is likely to abandon the project if Canada’s provincial and federal governments cannot reach an agreement by May 31. After this announcement, Alberta offered financial assistance. However, nothing is certain. If the pipeline is not constructed, this will be a major drawback for the company and it will adversely impact earnings in the first-quarter.



Price Performance in Q1



During the quarter, Kinder Morgan has underperformed the industry. In the aforesaid period, the stock has lost 16.6% compared with the industry’s decline of 14.9%.







Earnings Whispers



Our proven model does not conclusively show that Kinder Morgan will beat earnings this quarter. That is because a stock needs to have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold) for this to happen. That is not the case here as you will see below.



Zacks ESP: Earnings ESP for the company is 0.00%. You can uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they’re reported with our Earnings ESP Filter.



Zacks Rank: Kinder Morgan carries a Zacks Rank #3.



Please note that we caution investors against stocks with a Zacks Rank #4 or 5 (Sell Rated) going into the earnings announcement, especially when the company is seeing negative estimate revisions.



Stocks to Consider



Though earnings beat looks uncertain for Kinder Morgan, here are some firms that you may want to consider on the basis of our model. These have the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat this quarter:



Continental Resources, Inc CLR is an independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The company has an Earnings ESP of +7.50% and sports a Zacks Rank #1. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank stocks here.



Headquartered in Irving, TX, Pioneer Natural Resources Company PXD is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. The company has an Earnings ESP of +4.75% and carries a Zacks Rank #3.



Houston, TX-based EOG Resources, Inc EOG is a major independent oil and gas exploration and production company. The company has an Earnings ESP of +14.04% and a Zacks Rank #3.



Investor Alert: Breakthroughs Pending



A medical advance is now at the flashpoint between theory and realization. Billions of dollars in research have poured into it. Companies are already generating substantial revenue, and even more wondrous products are in the pipeline.



Cures for a variety of deadly diseases are in sight, and so are big potential profits for early investors. Zacks names 5 stocks to buy now.



Click here to see them >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Pioneer Natural Resources Company (PXD) : Free Stock Analysis Report



EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Continental Resources, Inc. (CLR) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.On Friday, JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) reported earnings. The banking giant beat on earnings per share and revenue expectations. So did Citigroup Inc (NYSE:C) and Wells Fargo & Co (NYSE:WFC). But guess what? C, WFC and JPM stock all fell on Friday.

JPMorgan is earnings billions of dollars per quarter and interest rates are rising, which adds to its bottom-line results. The economy is doing well and increasing but manageable volatility in the stock and bond markets is a boon for its trading desk revenues. Many would think that’s enough to bid JPM stock higher. So why on earth did JPM stock fall?

Bond Inversion

There is a developing concern in the bond market. Specifically, the gap between long-dated Treasury yields and short-dated Treasury yields is shrinking quite quickly, making many nervous that a recession could be on the horizon. While odds of a recession are still low, the worry is very real.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

While the Federal Reserve increasing interest rates does pad the bottom line for banks, it also ratchets up the yield on short-term bonds. However, for the most part this yield bump is not passed along to long-dated Treasuries.

Last week, the 5-year Treasury yield came within 37 basis points of the 30-year, its lowest gap since the financial recession. When short-term notes invert, meaning they yield more than long-term notes, that’s quite bad. That’s when we have trouble on our hands and that could be one reason investors were selling JPM stock rather than buying it — despite great earnings.

Valuing JPM Stock

With all that said, odds of a recession are still relatively low, particularly in 2018. As CEO Jamie Dimon said, “2018 is off to a good start with our businesses performing well across the board, driving strong top-line growth and building on the momentum from last year.”

The bank’s expense ratio fell while sales grew 10.3% year-over-year and net income soared 35%. These are great results, but what can we expect going forward? Analysts estimate revenue will grow 5.2% this year and another 4.7% next year. That’s good, but not necessarily great.

So what about earnings? On this front, it’s much better. Estimates call for almost 28% growth in 2018 and another 10% growth in 2019. Should 2019 not falter into a recession, JPM stock should continue climbing, as too could analysts’ estimates.

While JPMorgan stock pays out a 2% dividend yield and buys back plenty of stock, I would expect its dividend and buyback program to receive a boost later this year following the Fed’s stress test results. Additionally, tax reform and looser regulations should help the banks rake in even more cash, which should help in its test results and capital return potential.

Despite the growth, the yield and everything else going on with JPMorgan stock, shares trade at just 12.2 times 2018 earnings estimates. JPM stock trades at about 11 times forward earnings estimates, which again, is quite low given its growth. With earnings growth outpacing revenue growth, investors can expect improving margins, return on equity and other operational improvements.

Trading JPM Stock

So what do the charts look like? After breaking down in early February, JPM stock was right back to $116. I thought for sure that we were going to get a solid breakout here. I also thought Bank of America Corp (NYSE:BAC) was set to break out.

JPMorgan stock broke out over the $116 level — twice — but ultimately failed both times. Eventually support came into play around $106. Shares originally opened higher on Friday following JPMorgan’s earnings, but fell about 3% down to $110. Still above last week’s lows, the hope is that JPM can retest and break through $116.

chart of JPM stock price More



Click to Enlarge



With BAC, Goldman Sachs Group Inc (NYSE:GS) Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) and other banks reporting next week, perhaps they can give JPM a boost. I, for one, think the stock should be higher, not lower on the results, but I am not the market; we have to trade what’s given to us. Below $106 and short-term, risk-averse investors have to consider parting ways with JPMorgan stock. But note that the 200-day is close by and could be support as well.

With this growth and valuation though, I admit it’s hard to be a seller at lower prices.

Bret Kenwell is the manager and author of Future Blue Chips and is on Twitter @BretKenwell. As of this writing, Bret Kenwell held a long position in JPM stock.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post JPMorgan Chase & Co. Should Be Up on Earnings, Not Down appeared first on InvestorPlace.M&T Bank Corporation MTB reported net operating earnings of $2.26 per share in first-quarter 2018. The bottom line improved 5.1% year over year.



In addition, top-line growth was recorded. Moreover, improved credit quality was a positive factor. Further, pressure on margin eased. However, decrease in loan and deposit balances was a headwind. Also, results were affected by higher expenses.



Net operating income came in at $357 million, up around 1% year over year.



On a GAAP basis, M&T Bank’s earnings per share of $2.23 jumped 5% year over year. Net income inched up 1% year over year to $353 million. Notably, litigation reserve has been increased by $135 million. On an after-tax basis, reserve reduced net income by $102 million, or 68 cents per share.



NII & Fee Income Growth Boost Revenues, Expenses Flare Up



M&T Bank’s revenues came in at $1.44 billion comparing favorably with the year-ago figure of $1.37 billion.



Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased 6% year over year to $980 million in the quarter, driven by increased net interest margin, partly offset by lower average earning assets. Furthermore, net interest margin expanded 37 basis points year over year to 3.71%.



Supported by strong growth in trust income and distribution from Bayview Lending Group LLC, the company’s other income climbed 3% year over year to $459 million. These increases were partially offset by unrealized losses on investments in equity securities.



Non-interest expenses were $933 million, up 18% from the prior-year quarter. Excluding certain non-operating items, non-interest operating expenses came in at $927 million, escalating 19% from the year-ago quarter. The rise reflected increased litigation reserve, elevated salaries, and employee-benefit costs and other expenses.



Efficiency ratio came in at 64% this quarter, up from 56.9% in the prior-year quarter. Rise in ratio indicates fall in profitability.



Loans and leases, net of unearned discount, edged down 1.8% year over year to $87.7 billion at the end of the reported quarter. Additionally, total deposits declined 6.3% year over year to $90.9 billion.



M&T Bank's net operating income highlighted an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholder equity of 1.28% and 13.51%, respectively, compared with 1.21% and 13.05% recorded in the prior-year quarter.



Credit Quality Improved



M&T Bank reflected an improved credit quality picture in the reported quarter. Provision for credit losses shrunk 22% year over year to $43 million. Net charge-offs of loans came in at $41 million, down 5% year over year.



Further, the ratio of non-accrual loans to total net loans was 0.99%, down from 1.04% in the comparable period last year. Non-performing assets decreased 8% year over year to $966 million.



Strong Capital Position



M&T Bank’s estimated Common Equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets under regulatory capital rules was around 10.59%. Tangible equity per share came in at $66.99, slightly down year over year from $67.16.



Share Repurchase



During first-quarter 2018, M&T Bank repurchased a total of 3.78 million shares of its common stock for a total cost of $721 million.



Our Viewpoint



M&T Bank’s results display an impressive performance in the quarter. We believe the company, with its sturdy business model and strategic acquisitions, is well poised for growth. The Hudson City acquisition has, in all probability, provided an upside to M&T Bank’s top line by leveraging on the retail network of the former, as well as product and balance-sheet diversification.



However, regulatory issues and escalating costs remain headwinds for the bank.



M&T Bank Corporation Price, Consensus and EPS SurpriseMarkets Insider





Oil prices fall on Monday as Western leaders hint at no more action in Syria.

Fears that intervention from the West could disrupt supply pushed up oil prices last week.

Follow the live price of oil.



LONDON — The price of oil fell sharply on Monday as traders started to see a decreased likelihood of further escalation between Western powers and Syria, following Friday night's air strikes on the conflict-stricken nation.

Both major oil benchmarks have fallen on Monday morning. Brent oil — the international benchmark — is down 1.36% to trade at $71.63, while the more US-focused WTI oil is 1.23% lower at $66.56, as of around 1.10 p.m. BST (8.10 a.m. ET).

A coalition of the USA, UK, and France led targeted strikes on bases in Syria on Friday evening. Some commentators expected more strikes may have been planned.

However, on Sunday, British foreign secretary Boris Johnson told the media that the UK has no current plans for more strikes, while President Trump tweeted over the weekend "Mission Accomplished!"

A lack of further action is a negative for oil prices. Traders reason that action in the region would disrupt oil production, creating a supply shortage, and pushing up prices. The lack of action removes this potential supply squeeze, driving up prices.

Oil last week hit levels not seen since late 2014, with Brent hitting a high of close to $73 per barrel as the tensions in the Middle East simmered.

Jasper Lawler, the head of research at London Capital Group, believes there is a distinct possibility that tensions could escalate again, supporting the recent price rises in oil.

"Crude oil is already seeing some profit taking as the markets open, however with geopolitical tensions in the Middle East strained, the price of crude is expected to remain supported at these elevated levels," Lawler wrote in an email on Monday morning.

"Any slight escalation in tensions could impact on global oil supplies which are looking particularly vulnerable. Furthermore, given Iran is a major backer of Syria the re-imposing of Iran sanctions remains a very real possibility."

Oils fall is also being driven by signs that output of oil in the USA is set to rise.

"Another source of pressure came from U.S. energy companies; seven oil rigs were added in the week to 13 April, bringing the total count to 815, a level last seen in March 2015," Hussein Sayed, chief market strategist at FXTM said in an email.

NOW WATCH: Wall Street is divided over whether stocks can storm back from their latest meltdown

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson refuses to rule out further UK intervention in Syria — as Western powers consider 'options'U.S. West Texas Intermediate and international-benchmark Brent crude oil futures are trading lower early in the session on Monday after an attempt to breakout to the upside fizzled, encouraging investors to book profits.

At 0045 GMT, June WTI Crude Oil futures are trading $66.85, down $0.48 or -0.73% and June Brent Crude Oil is at $71.98, down $0.60 or -0.83%.

Daily June West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil More

After driving prices to their highest closes for the week on Friday, the market were on edge all week-end after the U.S., U.K. and France attacked Syria, targeting military positions and research weapons linked to chemical weapons.

Russia, Iran and Lebanon’s Hezbollah group condemned the action while rallying around the Syrian Assad regime. Also of note, they did not threaten retaliation. In the meantime, Saudi Arabia said it would take part in the U.S. coalition if asked. Additionally, the U.S. said it remained “locked and loaded” if there were further chemical attacks on civilians or a retaliation.

Daily June Brent Crude More

Forecast

Despite the early setback on Monday, the crude oil market remain on edge and at heightened volatility levels because of the fiery rhetoric being spewed by Russian President Vladimir Putin who warned on Sunday that further Western attacks on Syria would bring chaos to world affairs, as Washington prepared to increase pressure on Russia with new economic sanctions.

In a telephone conversation with his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani, Putin and Rouhani agreed that the Western strikes had damaged the chances of achieving a political resolution in the seven-year Syria conflict, according to a Kremlin statement.

“Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations,” the Kremlin statement said.

Profit-taking and the fact that there have been no disruptions to the crude oil supply after the week-end attack are two reasons for Monday’s weakness.

Additionally, traders are not forgetting that U.S. crude production reached a fresh weekly record of 10.53 million barrels per day, which led to the increase of U.S. crude stocks by 3.3 million barrels in the week to April 6. Furthermore, the U.S. rig count rose by seven to reach 815 in the week-ending April 13, the highest since March 2015, according to Baker Hughes data.In 2018 there is a tech stock that is hotter than Nvidia Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA). That stock is NetApp Inc. (NASDAQ:NTAP). NetApp stock very well could be the Nvidia of the future.

Our Luke Lango says the move isn’t over, and that NetApp could soon be trading at $75 or more. It opened on April 13 at about $69 per share.

NetApp is a data storage company. It makes a set of devices, filled with memory chips, that aim to move data from dry storage to processing quickly. It also produces data management software, a program called OnTap that lets companies manage this fast memory.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Before you hit that buy button, however, it might help to know why NetApp stock is suddenly so hot.

The magic term is hybrid cloud. After nearly a decade talking about it, big companies are finally moving their “crown jewels,” their key corporate data, to cloud technology.

My Data, My Cloud

“Put all your eggs in one basket and watch that basket.” Mark Twain used the line in Pudd’nhead Wilson, but it was originally said by Andrew Carnegie, in a talk to business students in Pittsburgh.

For most of this decade, the key basket for large enterprises remained client-server systems in their corporate data centers. Cloud, they felt, was for non-essential data and customer-facing systems. But now these companies have finally decided to switch key data to cloud standards, making it more useful to management.

NetApp is a key to that transition. Its memory devices sit at the front end of a corporate data center, or a corporate cloud. Its software is used to manage that memory and bring the data forward for use.

Until recently NetApp was a slow-growth, even a no-growth company. Revenue for fiscal 2017 was 10% short of where it was in fiscal 2015.

But recently business has picked up. Revenue was $1.325 billion for the quarter ending last July, $1.422 for the quarter ending in October, and $1.523 billion for the quarter ending in in January. For the quarter ending in April, it’s due to come in at $1.6 billion. Watch it beat that number.

At its analyst day on April 5 the company predicted it could sustain 15% annual growth for the next three years, even doubling its dividend to achieve a yield of 3%.

Since then NetApp stock has been off to the races, up 18% in a little more than one week. Analysts talk about it “dominating the market.”

For How Long?

There is a key to the future in that analyst day presentation, a troubling one.

Rather than seeing its new profitability as a reason to invest, management sees this as a reason to cash out. It plans to buy back stock as well as increase the dividend, and to have a “disciplined approach” to acquisitions, meaning don’t expect big deals.

The fact is that while hybrid cloud is an important transition, it’s a one-time thing, and not nearly as big a deal as analysts thought it would be early in the decade. It’s the back end of the cloud transition, the hard work that (companies hope) need only be done once.

This is not, in the end, like Nvidia, whose graphics chips are building new markets like artificial intelligence. This is a corporate transition that, once complete, will require only maintenance.

The Bottom Line on NetApp Stock

NetApp management is being wise here, and honest.

The cloud revolution has already pushed most corporate data into the new cloud architecture. Hybrid cloud is a key piece, but it’s a relatively small piece, a matter of catching up with a revolution that has already happened.

The NetApp boom, in other words, has a sell-by date. If you buy now, know that you’re going to sell later.

Dana Blankenhorn is a financial and technology journalist. He is the author of the historical mystery romance The Reluctant Detective Travels in Time, available now at the Amazon Kindle store. Write him at danablankenhorn@gmail.com or follow him on Twitter at @danablankenhorn. As of this writing he owned no shares in companies mentioned in this story.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post NetApp Inc. Stock Is a Great Trade If You Can Get out in Time appeared first on InvestorPlace.Last week, we saw Facebook, Inc. (NASDAQ:FB) founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testify in front of the U.S. Congress. While Zuck seemed to take the matter pretty seriously, it felt like a farce from Congress. Some asked important and probing questions, but most just used the opportunity to hit the punching bag a few times. Ultimately FB stock rallied during the two-day testimony.

So with Mark Zuckerberg finished on Capitol Hill — for now — where does that leave Facebook stock? FB stock was up almost 5% for the week, as investors are breathing a big sigh of relief now that the CEO’s testimony is done.

Obviously the user-data issue isn’t good, but let’s face the facts: Aside from a few days of Congressional grilling, there’s unlikely to be any big-time regulations handed down to social media players. Talk of increasing regulations may temporarily hit the group — Twitter Inc (NYSE:TWTR) and Snap Inc (NYSE:SNAP) included — but ultimately, business will go on.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Evaluating FB Stock

Well, it will go on … right? It will indeed. Talk to almost any advertiser and the Facebook platforms are the go-to names when it comes to reaching their customers. For that reason, revenue will continue to boost the top line and trickle down to the bottom line. Will Facebook ever charge its users? Almost with 100% certainty I would say no. It would instantly reverse its user growth and crush current usage numbers. However, I can say with 100% certainty that advertisers will continue to pay.

Analysts expect sales to grow 36% this year and another 27% next year, an impressive feat for a $480 billion market cap company. On the earnings front, estimates call for 35% growth this year and 21% growth next year.

Make no mistake: Facebook will likely be more selective with advertisements (especially with this year’s midterm elections) and it will pour resources into improving its user experience. That could cost it in both revenue and earnings in the short term, but should be a benefit in the long term. Remember, it’s still the premiere platform for advertising.

If it’s going to feel a pushback from users and advertisers, it’s going to come in this quarter. When the company reports earnings on April 25, we’ll get a look at just how much of an impact there was. If it was minimal, look for FB stock to rally. If we get a big selloff though, it may be worth watching for a buy.

What About FANG?

We can’t forget about FANG — Facebook, Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN), Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) and Alphabet Inc (NASDAQ:GOOGL, NASDAQ:GOOG). If this group is on the way up, it very well could “put a bid” under FB stock price.

If President Trump stops tweeting about Amazon for a little while, we could see a big breakout in the name. On Twitter, I also highlighted potential breakouts in GOOGL and in NFLX.

All that leaves then is FB. With Mark Zuckerberg finished with his testimony and the stock already hit, what reasons are left to sell the stock? I’m not saying a drop back down to $150 can’t happen. Only that if FANG plays ball, it should help FB stock rally.

While a rally could easily occur, it should be noted that with what’s going on at Facebook, it’s hard to imagine the stock finding its way back to new highs anytime soon.

What To Do With FB Stock

That brings us to FB stock. Earlier this month we said we’re buyers of Facebook stock. This was when shares were trading at $153. We noted that, “I wouldn’t go all-in on Facebook stock yet. But nibbling a starter position now for a longer-term investment is a bet that FB is still relevant in 6 months, 12 months and 24 months.”

chart of FB stock More



Click to Enlarge



I think that stands true — and the thing is, FB stock is cheap! Shares trade at just 22.5 times this year’s earnings estimates and a paltry 18.6 times next year’s earnings. Not only is it cheaper than SNAP and TWTR, but it’s cheaper than all of FANG and even many blue-chip, dividend titans, considering Facebook’s growth.

While its financial results could come under pressure, consider that FB hasn’t missed an earnings estimate in four years and has missed a revenue estimate just once in that span.

Bret Kenwell is the manager and author of Future Blue Chips and is on Twitter @BretKenwell. As of this writing, Bret Kenwell held a position in GOOGL.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Is Facebook, Inc. a Screaming Buy After Zuckerberg Grilling? appeared first on InvestorPlace.In all the company has spent about $20m on security and private planes for Zuckerberg since 2015. The security funds were required ‘due to specific threats to his safety’

Mark Zuckerberg testifying before a House energy and commerce hearing on Capitol Hill on 11 April. Photograph: Andrew Harnik/AP More

Facebook increased its spending on security for Mark Zuckerberg by 50% last year, the company has disclosed, paying more than $7.3m (£5.1m) to protect its top executive.

The security funds were required “due to specific threats to his safety arising directly as a result of his position as our founder, chairman, and CEO”, the under-fire social media company said in a new filing to US regulators.

Facebook also said it spent more than $1.5m (£1m) on Zuckerberg’s travel aboard private jets in 2017, meaning that in all the company has spent about $20m on security and private planes for Zuckerberg since 2015.

Security measures at Zuckerberg’s home in California are paid for by the company, according to the filing, as well as bodyguards who accompany the 33-year-old on his travels outside Facebook’s headquarters.

“We require these security measures for the company’s benefit because of the importance of Mr Zuckerberg to Facebook, and we believe that the costs of this overall security program are appropriate and necessary,” the company said.

Zuckerberg has come under sharp criticism for his company’s role in the spread of disinformation and political propaganda online. Last week he faced 10 hours of questions from US congressional committees but escaped largely unscathed.

The hearings were prompted by the disclosure by the Observer that tens of millions of Facebook users had their data harvested by a researcher working with Cambridge Analytica, a political consultancy hired by Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.

The filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) said that Zuckerberg continued to take a token $1 (70p) annual salary for his work at Facebook, which he founded as a student at Harvard University.

Zuckerberg’s fortune, which fluctuates with Facebook’s stock price, has recently totalled about $70bn (£49bn). He consistently appears in lists of the world’s top 10 richest people.

About $2.7m (£1.9m) was spent in 2017 on security for Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, according to the company. That total was only slightly higher than Sandberg’s security bill in 2016.

Sandberg, who has assisted Zuckerberg on an apology tour since news broke of the exploitation of users’ data, received a total pay package last year of more than $22.5m (£15.8m) in salary, bonuses and company stock.

Facebook said in the filing that the spending totals cited for Zuckerberg’s use of private planes “include passenger fees, fuel, crew, and catering costs”.

Zuckerberg raised alarms last week by stating during the congressional hearings that Facebook collects “data of people who have not signed up for Facebook”, apparently for security reasons.

No further information was offered on this disclosure, prompting calls from privacy campaigners for Facebook to explain how it gathers data on non-users and what information is retained by the company.

Zuckerberg also warned last week of an online propaganda “arms race” with Russia and said that fighting interference in elections around the world was now his top priority as Facebook’s boss.

Earlier this month the company said it had discovered and removed 273 accounts and pages that were being run on its platforms by the so-called Internet Research Agency (IRA), a notorious Russian government “troll farm”.

“The IRA has repeatedly used complex networks of inauthentic accounts to deceive and manipulate people who use Facebook, including before, during and after the 2016 US presidential elections,” Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief security officer, said in a blogpost announcing the action.

Prosecutors working for Robert Mueller, the special counsel, have charged Russian operatives with using social media platforms including Facebook to pose as American activists and sow political discord during the 2016 campaign.Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive officer and founder of Facebook Inc., waits to begin a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg

Victims of terrorist attacks who sued Facebook Inc. for incendiary postings say Mark Zuckerberg’s Congressional testimony last week should allow them to have another day in court.

The plaintiffs representing more than 20,000 victims and their families accused the social-media company of helping terrorist groups in the Middle East, such as Hamas. U.S. District Court Judge Nicholas Garaufis in Brooklyn, New York, dismissed the suits in May citing a U.S. law insulates publishers.

They have appealed, but the court put its review on hold pending the outcome of a Supreme Court case regarding Microsoft Corp. The plaintiffs asked the court on Monday to send their suits back to court in light of Zuckerberg’s testimony.

More from Bloomberg.com: Warship Ruse and New Stealth Missiles: How the U.S. and Allies Attacked Syria

"It’s startling that Mark Zuckerberg’s testimony so blatantly contradicts the positions that Facebook’s attorneys have been arguing in court," said Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a statement. "The social media giant has long been deeply involved in editing and manipulating the content on its platform, and has had the technology to block the incitement of terrorism as the plaintiffs in our cases contend."

Facebook’s founder told Congress that the company "is responsible for the content" on its site and uses algorithms to remove terrorist and other incendiary content. The company expects to increase its staff of professional censors to 20,000 by the end of this year, he said.

More from Bloomberg.com: How 105 Missiles Show Assad’s Future Is Safe

Representatives of Facebook didn’t immediately respond to an email seeking comment.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Facebook Terror Accusers Say Zuckerberg Testimony Bolsters Suits on bloombergpolitics.comTEL AVIV (Reuters) - Oracle Corp co-CEO Safra Catz said on Monday she expects an acceleration in the company's cloud business after the software maker last month reported sales from its cloud business that fell short of Wall Street expectations.

Catz told reporters in Tel Aviv that the company's cloud business was impacted by a new model made available to customers three quarters ago that resulted in much higher than projected license growth.

"That makes the appearance of a lower number (for the cloud business) even though money is actually coming in to another bucket," Catz said.

"As this evens out I think we are going to start seeing cloud acceleration again that is very significant but I don't want to time that right now."

Oracle last month said its quarterly cloud business revenue rose 31.7 percent to $1.57 billion, but fell short of the average analysts’ estimate of $1.59 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.





(Reporting by Tova Cohen; Editing by Steven Scheer)AT&T failed on one megadeal and overpaid on the second. Time Warner could be its third strikeAT&T failed on one megadeal and overpaid on the second. Time Warner could be its third strikeAT&T failed on one megadeal and overpaid on the second. Time Warner could be its third strikeDuring the past few months, Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:CSCO) certainly has been volatile, a has much of the tech sector. Just take a look at the charts for big-names like Facebook, Inc. (NASDAQ:FB), Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) and Oracle Corporation (NYSE:ORCL). Yet Cisco stock has still been able to manage through all this fairly well.

For the year so far, the shares are up about 15% and 36% for the past 12 months.

Now it’s reasonable for investors to be skeptical about CSCO stock anyway. Let’s face it, the company has only recently been able to generate positive growth on the top-line.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

What’s more, the competitive environment continues to get tougher, especially for the core networking business. CSCO must fight against operators like Juniper Networks, Inc. (NYSE:JNPR), Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co (NYSE:HPE), Arista Networks Inc (NYSE:ANET) and Huawei.

There is even emerging competition from some of CSCO’s own customers like Alphabet Inc (NASDAQ:GOOG, NASDAQ:GOOGL) and FB!

And yes, the competition has taken a toll. Consider that the company’s share of the global ethernet switching marketing has been declining, going from 63% in 2013 to 53% in 2017.

Cisco Stock and the Company’s Reinvention

Even with the issues, I still think Cisco stock is worth considering. The fact is that the company has been engaged in a major transformation involving major changes in the technology and the business model.

For example, Cisco has been aggressively moving to a SaaS approach, which involves charging ongoing subscriptions. Customers like this because it does not mean hefty upfront fees. Rather, the fees are tied to the usage. So if the technology proves to not be useful, a customer can simply cancel the subscription.

But there are key advantages for technology vendors. Subscriptions provide more stability with revenues and also allow for incentives to keep innovating the product, in order to lower the churn rate.

The SaaS approach is truly a win-win. So it is no surprise that many top tech operators use it, like salesforce.com, inc. (NYSE:CRM).

Now another critical part of the transformation that which should boost CSCO stock is the retooling of the networking technology. The focus has been to create “intuitive” systems, which allow for customization and programmability. There is also more built-in security features and the leveraging of machine learning as well as advanced analytics.

At the heart of all this is the Catalyst 9000. And yes, the traction has been considerable. During the latest quarter, this system saw the customer base more than double to 3,100. It’s actually the fastes product launch in Cisco’s history.

Bottom Line on the Cisco Stock Price

Cisco continues to crank out substantial cash flows. For the latest quarter, Cisco stock came to $4.1 billion, up 8% on a year-over-year basis. Cisco stock also sports an attractive dividend, which is currently at 3.1% (there was a 14% increase in the quarterly payout). Oh, and the company approved a whopping $25 billion buyback program.

In the meantime, there will be a nice boost from the tax reform bill. Keep in mind that the company has $67 billion in foreign accounts. In other words, there should be no trouble in continuing to raise dividends and pursuing an aggressive M&A program.

And finally, even with the runup in Cisco stock, the valuation is still reasonable, with the forward price-to-earnings ratio at 15X. All in all, there is room on the upside, especially in light of the ongoing transformation of the company and the positive secular trends.

Tom Taulli is the author of High-Profit IPO Strategies, All About Commodities and All About Short Selling. Follow him on Twitter at @ttaulli. As of this writing, he did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post The Bull Case Keeps Getting Better for Cisco Systems, Inc. Stock appeared first on InvestorPlace.FILE- In this Nov. 6, 2017, file photo, people walk by a branch office of Bank of America in New York. Bank of America Corp. reports earnings Monday, April 16, 2018. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan, File)

NEW YORK (AP) -- Bank of America's profits rose to a record $6.9 billion last quarter thanks in part to the new tax law and higher interest rates.

The consumer banking giant earned $6.92 billion, or 62 cents per share, up from $5.34 billion, or 45 cents a share, from the same period a year ago. Analysts had been expecting a per-share profit of 59 cents, according to FactSet.

Like its competitors JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, Bank of America reported a sharp drop in its tax bill Monday, which helped boost profits. While the bank's pretax income rose by roughly $1 billion, the amount it paid in taxes fell by roughly $500 million in the quarter. The Charlotte, North Carolina, bank estimates that the tax law cut its effective tax rate by 9 percentage points.

This first-quarter earnings season will give investors and the public their first good look into how President Donald Trump's tax law is impacting corporate America. Banks are among the first to report results at the beginning of each quarter.

Higher interest rates benefited the bank as well. The Federal Reserve has steadily raised interest rates, allowing banks to charge customers more to borrow. In Bank of America's consumer banking division, its largest business by revenue and profit, net interest income rose 13 percent from a year earlier. The bank also grew loans and deposits in the quarter.

While higher interest rates should translate into better interest rates for savers, most of the benefits have gone to the banks, not account holders. Bank of America paid just an average of 0.30 percent on its interest-earning deposits last quarter, up from 0.09 percent a year earlier.

Total revenue for Bank of America in the quarter was $23.13 billion, up from $22.25 billion in the same period a year earlier.If I Retire at 62 This Year, How Much Will I Collect in Social Security?(Adds White House statement, paragraphs 10-12)

* Signs emerge of Russia and West seeking to ease tensions

* U.S. set to announce new economic sanctions -Haley

* Raids trigger heated debate over legality

* Assad in 'good mood' -lawmakers

* GRAPHIC detailing air strikes on Syria https://tmsnrt.rs/2EKgAMN

By Jack Stubbs and Laila Bassam

MOSCOW/DAMASCUS, April 15 (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin warned on Sunday that further Western attacks on Syria would bring chaos to world affairs, as Washington prepared to increase pressure on Russia with new economic sanctions.

In a telephone conversation with his Iranian counterpart, Hassan Rouhani, Putin and Rouhani agreed that the Western strikes had damaged the chances of achieving a political resolution in the seven-year Syria conflict, according to a Kremlin statement.

"Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations," the Kremlin statement said.

The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, told CBS' "Face the Nation" program that the United States would announce new economic sanctions on Monday aimed at companies "that were dealing with equipment" related to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's alleged chemical weapons use.

On Saturday, the United States, France and Britain launched 105 missiles targeting what the Pentagon said were three chemical weapons facilities in Syria in retaliation for a suspected poison gas attack in Douma on April 7.

The Western countries blame Assad for the Douma attack that killed dozens of people. The Syrian government and its ally Russia have denied involvement in any such attack.

The bombings marked the biggest intervention by Western countries against Assad and ally Russia.

French President Emmanuel Macron said on Sunday that he had convinced Trump, who previously said he wanted to take U.S. forces out of Syria, to stay for "the long term."

The United States, France and Britain have said the missile strikes were limited to Syria's chemical weapons capabilities and not aimed at toppling Assad or intervening in the civil war. Macron said in an interview broadcast by BFM TV, RMC radio and Mediapart online news that he had convinced Trump to focus on the chemical weapons sites.

The White House pushed back against Macron's comments about Trump's intentions for U.S. forces.

“The U.S. mission has not changed - the president has been clear that he wants U.S. forces to come home as quickly as possible," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said.

"We are determined to completely crush ISIS and create the conditions that will prevent its return." she said. "In addition we expect our regional allies and partners to take greater responsibility both militarily and financially for securing the region.”

'HARD FOR US, BUT WILL DO MORE DAMAGE TO THE USA'

Responding to Haley's remarks about the plans for new sanctions, Evgeny Serebrennikov, deputy head of the defence committee of Russia's upper house of parliament, said Moscow was ready for the penalties, according to RIA news agency.

"They are hard for us, but will do more damage to the USA and Europe," RIA quoted Serebrennikov as saying.

In Damascus, Syria's deputy foreign minister, Faisal Mekdad, met inspectors from the global chemical weapons watchdog OPCW for about three hours in the presence of Russian officers and a senior Syrian security official.

The inspectors were due to attempt to visit the Douma site. Moscow condemned the Western states for refusing to wait for the OPCW's findings before attacking.

Mekdad declined to comment to reporters waiting outside the hotel where the meeting took place.

Assad told a group of visiting Russian lawmakers that the Western missile strikes were an act of aggression, Russian news agencies reported.

Russian agencies quoted the lawmakers as saying that Assad was in a "good mood", had praised the Soviet-era air defence systems Syria used to repel the Western attacks and had accepted an invitation to visit Russia at an unspecified time.

Trump had said: "Mission accomplished" on Twitter after the strikes, although U.S. Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie at the Pentagon acknowledged elements of the program remained and he could not guarantee that Syria would be unable to conduct a chemical attack in the future.

Story ContinuesThis article originally appeared on Council on Foreign Relations.

As the Trump administration deliberates military action to respond to apparent nerve gas attacks in Syria, debate is surging over the merits of punitive strikes. Mona Yacoubian, a senior advisor at the U.S. Institute of Peace, warns that Syria’s Bashar al-Assad is unlikely to be deterred from future attacks by anything less than force that rattles his regime. But a response that’s too aggressive, she says, could provoke escalation between the United States and Russia. Given the stakes, it is essential for Washington to spell out its strategy for Syria and reinforce the military’s role in vanquishing the self-proclaimed Islamic State, says Yacoubian, a contributor to a U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum study on the Obama administration’s decision-making on Syria.

With President Trump signaling military action, what options are likely on the table?

Trending: Mother's Murder Livestreamed on Facebook, Ex-Boyfriend Arrested

More likely than not, these attacks will be long-distance missile attacks, either from ships or possibly from airplanes not in Syrian airspace. It’s both building some sort of coalition, and also refining target lists, that has taken up time. The questions will be: Who undertakes the attacks? Is it the U.S. by itself, or with allies? There’s been a lot of talk about the French and the British taking part, and there’s also mention of Arab allies.

Another big question is, what would the targets be? The issue is a sense that whatever is targeted, the attacks would need to be more intense than what took place almost exactly a year ago, after the sarin attack on Khan Sheikhoun in Idlib Province.

Tomahawk missile strikes on Shayrat Airfield—where the planes took off that dropped the sarin gas in this town in Idlib—did not serve as a sufficient deterrent to the regime. There have been a number of chlorine gas attacks since that attack took place. This one seems to have been particularly potent; there’s conjecture that perhaps it was sarin.

The question before the president, his advisors, and the U.S. military is: What is the sweet spot for the use of force significant to serve as a real deterrent and yet not so big that we end up in an uncontrollable cycle of escalation?

Targeting civilians—both by chemical weapons and more conventional means—has been part of Assad’s strategy all along. Could such measures actually change his calculations?

For Assad the stakes are nothing less than existential, and that in many ways informs his behavior. Douma is the last rebel-held town in the rebel-held enclave [of eastern Ghouta,] a suburb of Damascus, so from the regime’s perspective, it was a particularly threatening area. They have swept out nearly all of the rebels from this area. In fact, the chemical weapons attack seems to have done the trick; the last group of rebels, from Jaish al-Islam, agreed to evacuate.

Incremental pressure is not likely to bring about a shift in behavior, because for Assad, it’s win or die. To shift his calculus, a hit would have to be fairly significant, so that he feels his regime is somehow threatened. Yet that’s precisely the direction we don’t want to go in, because the last thing we want to see is the regime collapse and all-out chaos break out.

Don't miss: More Than 200 Million Eggs Recalled on East Coast Over Salmonella Fears

Damascus, Syria More

REUTERS/Bassam Khabieh

Is there a way to ply Iran and Russia from Assad, so that they bring some pressure to bear on him?

That is the play to be made. Their calculus—certainly Russia’s, and maybe to a lesser extent Iran’s—is somewhat different than Assad’s. For Russia, the stakes aren’t necessarily existential. We’re already seeing signals by the Russians, on the one hand, to threaten retaliation, but also that they’re concerned about what these strikes might yield. Reporting suggests that all of Russia’s naval assets have left the port of Tartus.

Story Continues2018 Standard Deduction: How Much It Is and Why You're More Likely Than Ever to Use ItWomen Talk About How Tax Cuts Are Already Improving Their Lives More

Although the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) doesn’t affect tax returns filed for 2017 (due this week), Americans already have a lot to celebrate about the new tax law. Independent Women’s Voice asked women to share on social media how tax reform had affected them, and many women did. Their stories ought to be told. First, there were the increased paychecks for people like Rebecca, Brianna, Laura, and Debra. Rebecca told us she had reservations about President Trump, but was nevertheless excited that tax reform will benefit her family “significantly.” Brianna said she’s getting $234 more in each paycheck, for a total of $2,808 per year. Debra told us she’s keeping $300 more of her money each paycheck,The U.S. tax code is quite complex, so it's no wonder than many Americans don't know how their income tax is determined. When calculating the amount of federal income tax you owe, the IRS goes through several steps, such as excluding certain items from your income, applying the current tax brackets, and making adjustments for any tax credits you qualify for.

With that in mind, here's an overview of how the IRS calculates your income tax, so you can get an idea of where your 2017, 2018, and future tax bills are coming from.

IRS tax forms surrounded by money. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Step one: Your gross income

First, the IRS starts with your gross income, which includes all of the money that you make. In addition to income from your job, this also includes business income, retirement income, interest income, dividend income, and capital gains from selling investments, just to name some of the most common sources. (Note: long-term capital gains and qualified dividends are considered separately when calculating tax, which I'll get to in a bit.)

As an example, let's say that you earned the following income in 2017:

Salary of $50,000

Net business profit of $20,000 from doing consulting work

Interest income of $5,000

In this case, your gross income for the year would be $75,000. However, you don't pay taxes on your gross income -- this simply serves as the starting point.

Step two: Determining your adjusted gross income (AGI)

Next, certain adjustments are applied to your gross income to determine -- you guessed it -- your adjusted gross income, or AGI. These are also known as "above the line" deductions, because you can use them regardless of whether you itemize deductions or take the standard deduction.

Adjustments to your income include:

Deductible retirement contributions to a traditional IRA or to a self-employed retirement plan such as a SEP-IRA (Note: 401(k) and similar plan contributions are generally already excluded from the income listed on your W-2).

Student loan interest, up to a maximum of $2,500.

K-12 educator expenses, up to $250.

Moving expenses, if your move was connected to a new job (discontinued for the 2018 tax year).

Alimony paid, although it must be claimed as income by the recipient (discontinued for divorces after December 31, 2018).

Bad debts -- if you're owed money and can't collect.

Tuition and fees -- Up to $4,000 if you qualify and don't also claim the American Opportunity Credit or Lifetime Learning Credit.

If any of these apply to you, subtract them from your gross income to arrive at your AGI.

Continuing our example, let's say that your gross income is $75,000 and that you have the following adjustments for 2017:

Traditional IRA contributions of $3,000

Student loan interest of $2,000

These would be subtracted from your gross income to arrive at an adjusted gross income of $70,000.

Step three: Apply deductions to find your taxable income

Next comes tax deductions. Now, Americans have two choices. They can add up all of the tax deductions to which they're entitled, or they can choose to take the standard deduction.

For the 2017 tax year (the return you filed or will file in 2018), the standard deduction is $6,350 for single filers, and $12,700 for married couples filing jointly. For the 2018 tax year, the standard deduction is increasing to $12,000 and $24,000 for single and joint filers, respectively.

You can choose to take your corresponding standard deduction, or take all of your actual tax deductions, whichever is higher. Mortgage interest, charitable contributions, state and local taxes, and certain medical expenses are some of the most common ones, but there are many other possible deductions.

The majority of Americans use the standard deduction, but it's often a good idea to calculate your taxes using both methods to see which is most advantageous.

For example, let's say that in our hypothetical example with an AGI of $70,000 in 2017, this taxpayer is single and has the following deductions:

$5,000 in mortgage insurance

$1,500 in charitable contributions

$1,000 in state income taxes

This adds up to $7,500, higher than the $6,350 standard deduction for 2017. So, they would use the higher figure, resulting in $62,500 in remaining income.

Step four: Apply your personal exemptions (for 2017 returns only)Earlier today, CBS This Morning aired a new clip from its sit-down interview with Tesla CEO Elon Musk. The clip below centers on Tesla’s Autopilot feature, a topic that has been in the news quite a bit over the past few weeks following a tragic crash that saw a Model X in Autopilot mode careen into a highway divider before the vehicle’s battery pack burst into flames.

In the wake of the accident, Tesla said that the car’s Autopilot system warned the driver to place his hands on the wheel in the seconds leading up to the crash, warnings that Tesla claims were not heeded.

Don't Miss: $39 device adds a real head-up display (HUD) to any car without using your phone

“The crash happened on a clear day with several hundred feet of visibility ahead,” Tesla said earlier this week, “which means that the only way for this accident to have occurred is if Mr. Huang was not paying attention to the road, despite the car providing multiple warnings to do so.”

As part of the interview, CBS This Morning co-host Gayle King went on a drive with Musk in a Model 3 where the two talked briefly about all things Autopilot. When asked about the benefits of Autopilot if the feature requires users to keep their hands on the wheel, Musk responded:

Oh, it’s because the probability of an accident with autopilot is just less.

Addressing the future of Autopilot, Musk added that Autopilot will never be perfect.

“But it’s important to emphasize that Autopilot will never be perfect,” Musk said. “Nothing in the real world is perfect. But I do think that, long term, it can reduce accidents by a factor of 10. So there are 10 fewer fatalities, and tragedies, and serious injuries. And that’s a huge difference.”

The full video can be seen below.

BGR Top Deals:

Trending Right Now:

See the original version of this article on BGR.comApr.16 -- Walter Todd, chief investment officer at Greenwood Capital, and Bloomberg Intelligence's Alison Williams, discuss Bank of America earnings and lack of reaction from markets thus far. They speak with Bloomberg's Alix Steel and David Westin on "Bloomberg Daybreak: Americas."A U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer, deployed to Al Udeid Air Base, launches a strike as part of the multinational response to Syria's use of chemical weapons is seen in this image from Al Udeid Air Base, Doha, Qatar released on April 14, 2018. U.S. Air Force/Handout via REUTERS

By Phil Stewart and Tom Perry

WASHINGTON/BEIRUT (Reuters) - Western powers said on Saturday their missile attacks struck at the heart of Syria's chemical weapons program, but the restrained assault appeared unlikely to halt Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's progress in the 7-year-old civil war.

The United States, France and Britain launched 105 missiles overnight in retaliation for a suspected poison gas attack in Syria a week ago, targeting what the Pentagon said were three chemical weapons facilities, including a research and development center in Damascus' Barzeh district and two installations near Homs.

The bombing was the biggest intervention by Western countries against Assad and his superpower ally Russia, but the three countries said the strikes were limited to Syria's chemical weapons capabilities and not aimed at toppling Assad or intervening in the civil war.

The air attack, denounced by Damascus and its allies as an illegal act of aggression, was unlikely to alter the course of a multisided war that has killed at least half a million people.

U.S. President Donald Trump called the operation a success.

He proclaimed on Twitter: "Mission accomplished," echoing former President George W. Bush, whose use of the same phrase in 2003 to describe the U.S. invasion of Iraq was widely ridiculed as violence there dragged on for years.

"We believe that by hitting Barzeh, in particular, we've attacked the heart of the Syrian chemicals weapon program," U.S. Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie said at the Pentagon.

However, McKenzie acknowledged elements of the program remain and he could not guarantee that Syria would be unable to conduct a chemical attack in the future.

The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, said at an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council that Trump told her that if Syria uses poisonous gas again, "The United States is locked and loaded."

The Western countries said the strikes were aimed at preventing more Syrian chemical weapons attacks after a suspected poison gas attack in Douma on April 7 killed up to 75 people. They blame Assad's government for the attack.

In Washington, a senior administration official said on Saturday that "while the available information is much greater on the chlorine use, we do have significant information that also points to sarin use" in the attack.

Speaking at a summit in Peru, U.S. Vice President Mike Pence seemed less sure of the use of sarin, saying that Washington may well determine that it was used along with chlorine.

ASSAD 'RESILIENCE'

Ten hours after the missiles hit, smoke was still rising from the remains of five destroyed buildings of the Syrian Scientific Research Center in Barzeh, where a Syrian employee said medical components were developed.

There were no immediate reports of casualties.

Syria released video of the wreckage of a bombed-out research lab, but also of Assad arriving at work as usual, with the caption "Morning of resilience".

Late on Saturday Syria time, a large explosion was heard in a Syrian government-controlled area in a rural region south of Aleppo, according to the Britain-based war monitor, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The Observatory said the cause of the explosion was unknown, as well as its target.

Russian and Iranian military help over the past three years has allowed Assad to crush the rebel threat to topple him.

The United States, Britain and France have all participated in the Syrian conflict for years, arming rebels, bombing Islamic State fighters and deploying troops on the ground to fight that group. But they have refrained from targeting Assad's government, apart from a volley of U.S. missiles last year.

Although the Western countries have all said for seven years that Assad must leave power, they held back in the past from striking his government, lacking a wider strategy to defeat him.

Syria and its allies also made clear that they considered the attack a one-off, unlikely to do meaningful harm to Assad.

A senior official in a regional alliance that backs Damascus told Reuters the sites that were targeted had been evacuated days ago thanks to a warning from Russia.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the strikes were "unacceptable and lawless."

Syrian state media called them a "flagrant violation of international law," while Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called it a crime and the Western leaders criminals.

Story ContinuesThe Bank of America Corp. logo is displayed at the company's Financial Center in the Manhattan borough of New York, U.S., on Friday, Jan. 12, 2016. Bank of America is scheduled to report earnings data on January 19. Photographer: John Taggart

Bank of America Corp. shares are down as much as 1.1 percent in mid-morning trading, after the bank reported record first-quarter profits, helped by cost-cutting and after Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan flagged " solid U.S. consumer activity." Analysts, however, were a bit cool on the quarter, with several noting that low provisions and better tax rates drove the beat versus estimates, while loan growth was disappointing. The bank also stopped reporting fees from its once giant mortgage business .

Other banks are mixed in morning trading, with JPMorgan Chase & Co. up as much as 1.1 percent; Citigroup Inc. down as much as 1.4 percent, and Wells Fargo down as much as 1.1 percent; all three fell after reporting on Friday. The KBW bank index is paring gains of as much as 0.8 percent. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which both report results later this week, are higher in early trade.

More from Bloomberg.com: Warship Ruse and New Stealth Missiles: How the U.S. and Allies Attacked Syria

Here’s a sample of Wall Street commentary:

KBW, Brian Kleinhanzl

BAC results were "mixed," as lower taxes and provision expense drove the beat, while revenues and expenses "washed." With investors’ fears focused on deposit betas and loan growth, 1Q deposit betas were better but average loan growth missed, while end-of-period loan growth was better. Kleinhanzl notes BAC beat on expenses, though "if loan growth doesn’t materialize then expenses may not matter."

Goldman Sachs, Richard Ramsden

Results were "moderately better on NII growth, benign credit." Ramsden notes core revenues were up 3% y/y, while core expenses expanded 1%, with the efficiency ratio dropping below 60% for the first time in 1Q post-crisis. The benefit from the December rate hike and a steeper long end was offset by slightly weaker loan growth.

More from Bloomberg.com: How 105 Missiles Show Assad’s Future Is Safe

Baird, David George

1Q was "largely in line," as lower-than-est. provisioning and slightly higher fees offset higher expenses. "Investor expectations were rising for the market-sensitive banks, but results today look solid and consistent with recent trends," George says.

Nomura Instinet, Steven Chubak

"While revenues and credit continue to surprise positively vs Street expectations, the setup here is a bit tricky, as BAC remains a popular long and the results can best be described as ’good, not great.’"

More from Bloomberg.com: Former First Lady Barbara Bush in Failing Health, Spokesman Says

Atlantic, John Heagerty

"This looks like a good result at the operating level but the 5% EPS beat perhaps flatters the numbers," as the 5% adj. EPS beat was driven by lower provisions and a low effective tax rate.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read BofA Shares Drop With Wall Street Analysts Lukewarm on Results on bloomberg.comIf I Retire at 62 This Year, How Much Will I Collect in Social Security?The need for diverse development teams and truly representational data-sets to avoid biases being baked into AI algorithms is one of the core recommendations in a lengthy Lords committee report looking into the economic, ethical and social implications of artificial intelligence, and published today by the upper House of the UK parliament.

"The main ways to address these kinds of biases are to ensure that developers are drawn from diverse gender, ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds, and are aware of, and adhere to, ethical codes of conduct," the committee writes, chiming with plenty of extant commentary around algorithmic accountability.

“It is essential that ethics take centre stage in AI’s development and use," adds committee chairman, Lord Clement-Jones, in a statement. “The UK has a unique opportunity to shape AI positively for the public’s benefit and to lead the international community in AI’s ethical development, rather than passively accept its consequences."

The report also calls for the government to take urgent steps to help foster "the creation of authoritative tools and systems for auditing and testing training datasets to ensure they are representative of diverse populations, and to ensure that when used to train AI systems they are unlikely to lead to prejudicial decisions" -- recommending a publicly funded challenge to incentivize the development of technologies that can audit and interrogate AIs.

"The Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation, in consultation with the Alan Turing Institute, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the British Standards Institute and other expert bodies, should produce guidance on the requirement for AI systems to be intelligible," the committee adds. "The AI development sector should seek to adopt such guidance and to agree upon standards relevant to the sectors within which they work, under the auspices of the AI Council" -- the latter being a proposed industry body it wants established to help ensure "transparency in AI".

The committee is recommending a cross-sector AI Code to try to steer developments in a positive, societally beneficial direction -- though not for this to be codified in law (the suggestion is could "provide the basis for statutory regulation, if and when this is determined to be necessary").

Among the five principles they're suggesting as a starting point for the voluntary code are that AI should be developed for "the common good and benefit of humanity", and that it should operate on "principles of intelligibility and fairness".

Though, elsewhere in the report, the committee points out it can be a challenge for humans to understand decisions made by some AI technologies -- going on to suggest it may be necessary to refrain from using certain AI techniques for certain types of use-cases, at least until algorithmic accountability can be guaranteed.

"We believe it is not acceptable to deploy any artificial intelligence system which could have a substantial impact on an individual’s life, unless it can generate a full and satisfactory explanation for the decisions it will take," it writes in a section discussing 'intelligible AI'. "In cases such as deep neural networks, where it is not yet possible to generate thorough explanations for the decisions that are made, this may mean delaying their deployment for particular uses until alternative solutions are found."

A third principle the committee says it would like to see included in the proposed voluntary code is: "AI should not be used to diminish the data rights or privacy of individuals, families or communities".

Though this is a curiously narrow definition -- why not push for AI not to diminish rights, period?

"It’s almost as if 'follow the law' is too hard to say," observes Sam Smith, a coordinator at patient data privacy advocacy group, medConfidential, discussing the report.

Looking at the tech industry as a whole, it's certainly hard to conclude that self-defined 'ethics' appear to offer much of a meaningful check on commercial players' data processing and AI activities.

Topical case in point: Facebook has continued to claim there was nothing improper about the fact millions of people's information was shared with professor Aleksandr Kogan. People "knowingly provided their information" is the company's defensive claim.

Story Continues

Yet the vast majority of people whose personal data was harvested from Facebook by Kogan clearly had no idea what was possible under its platform terms -- which, until 2015, allowed one user to 'consent' to the sharing of all their Facebook friends. (Hence ~270,000 downloaders of Kogan's app being able to pass data on up to 87M Facebook users.)

So Facebook's self-defined 'ethical code' has been shown to be worthless -- aligning completely with its commercial imperatives, rather than supporting users to protect their privacy. (Just as its T&Cs are intended to cover its own "rear end", rather than clearly inform people's about their rights, as one US congressman memorably put it last week.)

“A week after Facebook were criticized by the US Congress, the only reference to the Rule of Law in this report is about exempting companies from liability for breaking it," Smith adds in a MedConfidential response statement to the Lords report. "Public bodies are required to follow the rule of law, and any tools sold to them must meet those legal obligations. This standard for the public sector will drive the creation of tools which can be reused by all."

Health data "should not be shared lightly"

The committee, which took evidence from Google -owned DeepMind as one of a multitude of expert witnesses during more than half a year's worth of enquiry, touches critically on the AI company's existing partnerships with UK National Health Service Trusts.

The first of which, dating from 2015 -- and involving the sharing of ~1.6 million patients' medical records with the Google-owned company -- ran into trouble with the UK's data protection regulator. The UK's information commissioner concluded last summer that the Royal Free NHS Trust's agreement with DeepMind had not complied with UK data protection law.

Patients' medical records were used by DeepMind to develop a clinical task management app wrapped around an existing NHS algorithm for detecting a condition known as acute kidney injury. The app, called Streams, has been rolled out for use in the Royal Free's hospitals -- complete with PR fanfare. But it's still not clear what legal basis exists to share patients' data.

"Maintaining public trust over the safe and secure use of their data is paramount to the successful widespread deployment of AI and there is no better exemplar of this than personal health data," the committee warns. "There must be no repeat of the controversy which arose between the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust and DeepMind. If there is, the benefits of deploying AI in the NHS will not be adopted or its benefits realised, and innovation could be stifled."

The report also criticizes the "current piecemeal" approach being taken by NHS Trusts to sharing data with AI developers -- saying this risks "the inadvertent under-appreciation of the data" and "NHS Trusts exposing themselves to inadequate data sharing arrangements".

"The data held by the NHS could be considered a unique source of value for the nation. It should not be shared lightly, but when it is, it should be done in a manner which allows for that value to be recouped," the committee writes.

A similar point -- about not allowing a huge store of potential value which is contained within publicly-funded NHS datasets to be cheaply asset-stripped by external forces -- was made by Oxford University’s Sir John Bell in a UK government-commissioned industrial strategy review of the life sciences sector last summer.

Despite similar concerns, the committee also calls for a framework for sharing NHS data be published by the end of the year, and is pushing for NHS Trusts to digitize their current practices and records -- with a target deadline of 2022 -- in "consistent formats" so that people's medical records can be made more accessible to AI developers.

But worryingly, given the general thrust towards making sensitive health data more accessible to third parties, the committee does not seem to have a very fine-grained grasp of data protection in a health context -- where, for example, datasets can be extremely difficult to render truly anonymous given the level of detail typically involved.

Although they are at least calling for the relevant data protection and patient data bodies to be involved in provisioning the framework for sharing NHS data, alongside Trusts that have already worked with DeepMind (and in one case received an ICO wrist-slap).

They write:

We recommend that a framework for the sharing of NHS data should be prepared and published by the end of 2018 by NHS England (specifically NHS Digital) and the National Data Guardian for Health and Care should be prepared with the support of the ICO [information commissioner's office] and the clinicians and NHS Trusts which already have experience of such arrangements (such as the Royal Free London and Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trusts), as well as the Caldicott Guardians [the NHS' patient data advocates]. This framework should set out clearly the considerations needed when sharing patient data in an appropriately anonymised form, the precautions needed when doing so, and an awareness of the value of that data and how it is used. It must also take account of the need to ensure SME access to NHS data, and ensure that patients are made aware of the use of their data and given the option to opt out.

As the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal has clearly illustrated, opt-outs alone cannot safeguard people's data or their legal rights -- which is why incoming EU data protection rules (GDPR) beef up consent requirements to require a clear affirmative. (And it goes without saying that opt-outs are especially concerning in a medical context where the data involved is so sensitive -- yet, at least in the case of a DeepMind partnership with Taunton and Somerset NHS Trust, patients do not even appear to have been given the ability to say no to their data being processed.)

Opt-outs (i.e. rather than opt-in systems) for data-sharing and self-defined/voluntary codes of 'ethics' demonstrably do very little to protect people's legal rights where digital data is concerned -- even if it's true, for example, that Facebook holds itself in check vs what it could theoretically do with data, as company execs have suggested (one wonders what kind stuff they're voluntarily refraining from, given what they have been caught trying to manipulate).

The wider risk of relying on user savvy to regulate data sharing is that an educated, technologically aware few might be able to lock down -- or reduce -- access to their information; but the mainstream majority will have no clue they need to or even how it's possible. And data protection for a select elite doesn't sound very equitable.

Meanwhile, at least where this committee's attitude to AI is concerned, developers and commercial entities are being treated with favorable encouragement -- via the notion of a voluntary (and really pretty basic) code of AI ethics -- rather than being robustly reminded they need to follow the law.

Given the scope and scale of current AI-fueled sandals, that risks the committee looking naive.

Though the government has made AI a strategic priority, and policies to foster and accelerate data-sharing to drive tech developments are a key part of its digital and industrial strategies. So the report needs to be read within that wider context.

The committee does add its voice to questions about whether/how legal liability will mesh with automated decision making -- writing that "clarity is required" on whether "new mechanisms for legal liability and redress" are needed or not.

"We recommend that the Law Commission consider the adequacy of existing legislation to address the legal liability issues of AI and, where appropriate, recommend to Government appropriate remedies to ensure that the law is clear in this area," it adds on this. "At the very least, this work should establish clear principles for accountability and intelligibility. This work should be completed as soon as possible."

But this isn't exactly cutting edge commentary. Last month the government announced a three-year regulatory review focused on self-driving cars and the law, for instance. And the liability question is already well-aired -- and in the autonomous cars case, at least, already having its tires extensively kicked in the UK.

What's less specifically discussed in government circles is how AIs are demonstrably piling pressure on existing laws. And what -- if anything -- should be done to address those kind of AI-fueled breaking points. (Terrorist content has been an exception for some years, with government ministers more than happy to make platforms and technologies their scapegoat; more recently hate speech on online platforms has also become a major political target for governments in Europe.)

The committee briefly touches on some of these pressure points in a section on AI's impact on "social and political cohesion", noting concerns raised to it about issues such as filter bubbles and the risk of AIs being used to manipulate elections. "[T]here is a rapidly growing need for public understanding of, and engagement with, AI to develop alongside the technology itself. The manipulation of data in particular will be a key area for public understanding and discussion in the coming months and years," it writes here.

However it has little in the way of gunpowder -- merely recommending that research is commissioned into "the possible impact of AI on conventional and social media outlets", and to investigate "measures which might counteract the use of AI to mislead or distort public opinion as a matter of urgency".

Elsewhere in the report, it does also raise an interesting concern about data monopolies -- noting that investments by "large overseas technology companies in the UK economy" are "increasing consolidation of power and influence by a select few", which it argues risks damaging the UK’s home-grown AI start-up sector.

But again there's not much of substance in its response. The committee doesn't seem to have formed its own ideas on how or even whether the government needs to address data being concentrating power in the hands of big tech -- beyond calling for "strong" competition frameworks. This lack of conviction is attributed to hearing mixed messages on the topic from its witnesses. (Though may well also be related to the economic portion of the enquiry's focus.)

"The monopolisation of data demonstrates the need for strong ethical, data protection and competition frameworks in the UK, and for continued vigilance from the regulators," it concludes. "We urge the Government, and the Competition and Markets Authority, to review proactively the use and potential monopolisation of data by the big technology companies operating in the UK."

The report also raises concerns about access to funding for UK AI startups to ensure they can continue scaling domestic businesses -- recommending that a chunk of the £2.5BN investment fund at the British Business Bank, which the government announced in the Autumn Budget 2017, is "reserved as an AI growth fund for SMEs with a substantive AI component, and be specifically targeted at enabling such companies to scale up".

No one who supports the startup cause would argue with trying to make more money available. But if data access has been sealed up by tech giants all the scale up funding in the world won't help domestic AI startups break through that algorithmic ceiling.

Also touched on: The looming impact of Brexit, with the committee calling on the government to "commit to underwriting, and where necessary replacing, funding for European research and innovation programmes, after we have left the European Union" . Which boils down to another whistle in a now very long score of calls for replacement funding after the UK leaves the EU.

Funding for regulators is another concern, with a warning that the ICO must be "adequately and sustainably resourced" -- as a result of the additional burden the committee expects AI to put on existing regulators.

This issue is also on the radar of the UK's digital minister, Matt Hancock, who has said he's considering what additional resources the ICO might need -- such as the power to compel testimony from individuals. (Though the ICO itself has previously raised concerns that the minister and his data protection bill are risking undermining her authority.) For now it remains to be seen how well armed the agency will be to meet the myriad challenges generated and scaled by AI's data processors.

"Blanket AI-specific regulation, at this stage, would be inappropriate," the report adds. "We believe that existing sector-specific regulators are best placed to consider the impact on their sectors of any subsequent regulation which may be needed. We welcome that the Data Protection Bill and GDPR appear to address many of the concerns of our witnesses regarding the handling of personal data, which is key to the development of AI. The Government Office for AI, with the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation, needs to identify the gaps, if any, where existing regulation may not be adequate. The Government Office for AI must also ensure that the existing regulators’ expertise is utilised in informing any potential regulation that may be required in the future."

The committee's last two starter principles for their voluntary AI code serve to underline how generously low the ethical bar is really being set here -- boiling down to: AI shouldn't be allowed to kill off free schools for our kids, nor be allowed to kill us -- which may itself be another consequence of humans not always being able to clearly determine how AI does what it does or exactly what it might be doing to us.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg arrives to testify before a Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees joint hearing regarding the company’s use and protection of user data, on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, U.S., April 10, 2018. REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

By David Ingram

SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Concern about Facebook Inc's respect for data privacy is widening to include the information it collects about non-users, after Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said the world's largest social network tracks people whether they have accounts or not.

Privacy concerns have swamped Facebook since it acknowledged last month that information about millions of users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, a firm that has counted U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 electoral campaign among its clients.

Zuckerberg said on Wednesday under questioning by U.S. Representative Ben Luján that, for security reasons, Facebook also collects "data of people who have not signed up for Facebook."

Lawmakers and privacy advocates immediately protested the practice, with many saying Facebook needed to develop a way for non-users to find out what the company knows about them.

"We've got to fix that," Representative Luján, a Democrat, told Zuckerberg, calling for such disclosure, a move that would have unclear effects on the company's ability to target ads. Zuckerberg did not respond. On Friday Facebook said it had no plans to build such a tool.

Critics said that Zuckerberg has not said enough about the extent and use of the data. "It's not clear what Facebook is doing with that information," said Chris Calabrese, vice president for policy at the Center for Democracy & Technology, a Washington advocacy group.





COOKIES EVERYWHERE

Facebook gets some data on non-users from people on its network, such as when a user uploads email addresses of friends. Other information comes from "cookies," small files stored via a browser and used by Facebook and others to track people on the internet, sometimes to target them with ads.

"This kind of data collection is fundamental to how the internet works," Facebook said in a statement to Reuters.

Asked if people could opt out, Facebook added, "There are basic things you can do to limit the use of this information for advertising, like using browser or device settings to delete cookies. This would apply to other services beyond Facebook because, as mentioned, it is standard to how the internet works."

Facebook often installs cookies on non-users' browsers if they visit sites with Facebook "like" and "share" buttons, whether or not a person pushes a button. Facebook said it uses browsing data to create analytics reports, including about traffic to a site.

The company said it does not use the data to target ads, except those inviting people to join Facebook.





TARGETING FACEBOOK

Advocates and lawmakers say they are singling out Facebook because of its size, rivaled outside China only by Alphabet Inc's Google, and because they allege Zuckerberg was not forthcoming about the extent and reasons for the tracking.

"He's either deliberately misunderstanding some of the questions, or he's not clear about what's actually happening inside Facebook's operation," said Daniel Kahn Gillmor, a senior staff technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union.

Zuckerberg, for instance, said the collection was done for security purposes, without explaining further or saying whether it was also used for measurement or analytics, Gillmor said, adding that Facebook had a business incentive to use the non-user data to target ads.

Facebook declined to comment on why Zuckerberg referred to security only.

Gillmor said Facebook could build databases on non-users by combining web browsing history with uploaded contacts. Facebook said on Friday that it does not do so.

The ACLU is pushing U.S. lawmakers to enact broad privacy legislation including a requirement for consent prior to data collection.

The first regulatory challenge to Facebook's practices for non-users may come next month when a new European Union law, known as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), takes effect and requires notice and consent prior to data collection.

At a minimum, "Facebook is going to have to think about ways to structure their technology to give that proper notice," said Woodrow Hartzog, a Northeastern University professor of law and computer science.

Facebook said in its statement on Friday, "Our products and services comply with applicable law and will comply with GDPR."

The social network would be wise to recognize at least a right to know, said Michael Froomkin, a University of Miami law professor.

"If I'm not a Facebook user, I ought to have a right to know what data Facebook has about me," Froomkin said.





(Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Peter Henderson and Richard Chang)U.S. stock futures are trading broadly higher this morning. Wall Street has turned its attention toward earnings season following a U.S.-led missile strike in Syria this weekend.

stock market today More

Bank of America Corp (NYSE:BAC) set the tone for trading today. The company said that earnings jumped 51% to 62 cents per share on revenue of $23.1 billion. Analysts were expecting earnings of 59 cents per share on sales of $22.907 billion. BAC stock is up nearly 1% in premarket trading.

As for futures activity, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures are up 0.73%, S&P 500 futures have added 0.73% and Nasdaq-100 futures are up 0.77%.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Turning to the options pits, volume rebounded sharply on Friday. About 18.5 million calls and 17.6 million puts changed hands on the session. The CBOE single-session equity put/call volume ratio ticked higher to 0.66. The 10-day moving average held at 0.66.

Friday’s options activity saw Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) with mixed volume after the company released its new Ryzen lineup. Meanwhile, JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) was call heavy as investors digested the company’s quarter earnings miss. Finally, NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NASDAQ:NXPI) was flooded with put volume after the company extended its merger deadline with Qualcomm Inc. (NASDAQ:QCOM).

Monday’s Vital Options Data: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) and NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXPI) More

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD)

AMD released its second-generation of Ryzen processors to very little fanfare on Friday. The new processor lineup includes the flagship eight-core Ryzen 7 2700X, which sells for $329. By comparison, Intel corporation’s current top chip, the i7-8700K, has only six-cores and sells for around $350. AMD’s new lineup goes on sale April 19.

AMD stock options traders appear to be more concerned with the continued drop in cryptocurrencies, however. Volume on Friday jumped to 390,000 contracts, nearly doubling AMD’s daily average. Calls only made up 53% of the day’s take.

Surprisingly, the May options series has turned quite bullish in the past week. Currently, the May put/call open interest ratio rests at 0.49, with calls more than doubling puts among back month options. Options traders are clearly betting on a post-earnings surge for AMD, which has yet to announce an official release date.





JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)

JPMorgan stock is getting a boost this morning from BofA’s solid quarterly earnings report. JPM itself released earnings last week, which were praised heavily in the financial media. However, Friday saw JPM stock drop sharply as investors pushed past the talking heads and dove deeper into JPMorgan’s quarterly earnings miss.

Profit taking was clearly in the works on Friday. Volume soared to 330,000 contracts, or more than four times JPM’s daily average. Calls made up 68% of the day’s take.

Checking in with May options, JPM speculators are not anticipating much follow-through buying. In fact, the May put/call OI ratio arrives at a lofty 1.10, with puts clearly in command. Whether these puts are protective or outright bearish in nature, this negative sentiment backdrop could be a warning for JPM stock going forward.

NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXPI)

NXP Semiconductors extended the deadline for its $44 billion merger deal with Qualcomm on Friday. The deal has been signed off on by all countries concerns, save China. The Wall Street Journal reported over the weekend that Chinese regulatory reviews had slowed amid U.S.-China trade tensions, casting some questions over the NXPI/QCOM deal.

NXPI stock options traders are decidedly nervous about the extension. Volume on Friday soared to 242,000 contracts — more than six times NXPI’s daily average. What’s more, puts made up the bulk of Friday’s activity, claiming 77% of all activity.

A majority of those puts are holed up in the May series. At last check, the May put/call OI ratio had ballooned to a reading of 1.85, with puts nearly doubling calls for the series. That said, many of these puts could be related to arbitrage plays surrounding the merger deal — especially with the new deadline now set for April 25.

As of this writing, Joseph Hargett was long on Advanced Micro Devices (AMD).

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Mondayâ€™s Vital Data: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) and NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXPI) appeared first on InvestorPlace.Visitors pass in front of the Chinese telecoms equipment group ZTE Corp booth at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, February 26, 2018. REUTERS/Sergio Perez

By Steve Stecklow and Karen Freifeld

LONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Department of Commerce has banned American companies from selling components to leading Chinese telecom equipment maker ZTE Corp for seven years for violating the terms of a sanctions violation case, U.S. officials said on Monday.

The U.S. action, first reported by Reuters, could be devastating to ZTE since American companies are estimated to provide 25 percent to 30 percent of the components used in ZTE’s equipment, which includes networking gear and smartphones.

The ban is the result of ZTE's failure to comply with an agreement with the U.S. government after it pleaded guilty last year in federal court in Texas to conspiring to violate U.S. sanctions by illegally shipping U.S. goods and technology to Iran.





The Chinese company, which sells smartphones in the United States, paid $890 million in fines and penalties, with an additional penalty of $300 million that could be imposed.

"If the company is not able to resolve it, they may very well be put out of business by this. Many banks and companies even outside the U.S. are not going to want to deal with them," said Eric Hirschhorn, a former U.S. Undersecretary of Commerce who was heavily involved in the case.

As part of the agreement, Shenzhen-based ZTE Corp promised to dismiss four senior employees and discipline 35 others by either reducing their bonuses or reprimanding them, senior Commerce Department officials told Reuters. But the Chinese company admitted in March that while it had fired the four senior employees, it had not disciplined or reduced bonuses to the 35 others.

Under terms of the ban, U.S. companies cannot export prohibited goods, such as chip sets, directly to ZTE or via another country, beginning immediately.

Shares of big U.S. ZTE suppliers fell sharply on the Commerce ban. Acacia Communications Inc, which got 30 percent of its total 2017 revenue from ZTE, tumbled 35 percent, hitting a near two-year low.

Shares of optical companies including Lumentum Holdings Inc fell 6.6 percent and Finisar Corp dropped 2.7 percent. Oclaro Inc, which got 18 percent of its fiscal 2017 revenue from ZTE, lost 13.1 percent.

ZTE "provided information back to us basically admitting that they had made these false statements," said a senior department official. "That was in response to the U.S. asking for the information."

"We can’t trust what they are telling us is truthful," the official said. "And in international commerce, truth is pretty important."

ZTE officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

The ban on supplying ZTE comes two months after two Republican Senators introduced legislation to block the U.S. government from buying or leasing telecommunications equipment from ZTE or its Chinese rival Huawei Technologies Co Ltd, citing concern the companies would use their access to spy on U.S. officials.

Meanwhile, Britain's main cyber security agency said on Monday it has written to organizations in the UK's telecommunications sector warning about using services or equipment from ZTE.





'DEVASTATING'

Douglas Jacobson, an exports control lawyer who represents suppliers to ZTE, called the ban highly unusual and said it would severely affect the company.

“This will be devastating to the company, given their reliance on U.S. products and software,” said Jacobson. “It’s certainly going to make it very difficult for them to produce and will have a potentially significant short and long-term negative impact on the company.”

ZTE has sold handset devices to U.S. mobile carriers AT&T Inc, T-Mobile US Inc and Sprint Corp. It has relied on U.S. companies including Qualcomm Inc, Microsoft Corp and Intel Corp for components.

The U.S. action against ZTE is likely to further exacerbate current tensions between Washington and Beijing over trade. After the U.S. placed export restrictions on ZTE in 2016 for Iran sanctions violations, the China’s Ministry of Commerce and Foreign Ministry criticized the decision.

A five-year federal investigation found last year that ZTE had conspired to evade U.S. embargoes by buying U.S. components, incorporating them into ZTE equipment and illegally shipping them to Iran.

ZTE, which devised elaborate schemes to hide the illegal activity, agreed to plead guilty after the Commerce Department took actions that threatened to cut off its global supply chain.

Story ContinuesA month has gone by since the last earnings report for Geron Corporation GERN. Shares have added about 10.6% in that time frame.

Will the recent positive trend continue leading up to its next earnings release, or is GERN due for a pullback? Before we dive into how investors and analysts have reacted as of late, let's take a quick look at the most recent earnings report in order to get a better handle on the important catalysts.

Geron Q4 Loss Flat Year Over Year, Revenues Surge

Geron reported a loss of 5 cents per share for the fourth quarter of 2017, which was wider than the Zacks Consensus Estimate of a loss of 4 cents and flat compared with the year-ago period.

Quarterly revenues surged 103% to $0.19 million from the year-ago quarter. Revenues, however, missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1 million. Revenues comprised royalty and license fee revenues received under various non-imetelstat license agreements.

Research and development (R&D) expenses declined 39% to $2.5 million due to lower costs for the proportionate share of clinical development costs for imetelstat.

General and administrative (G&A) expenses rose 14.6% to $5.5 million due to increased stock-based compensation and consulting costs, partially offset by lower legal costs.

The company ended the quarter with $109.2 million in cash and investments compared with $112.7 million at the end of the third quarter.

2017 Results

Revenues for the full year were significantly down to $1.1 million from $6.2 million in the year-ago period. We note that revenues in the year-ago quarter had included a $5 million upfront payment from Janssen related to a licensing agreement.

The company reported a loss of 18 cents for the year, narrower than the year-ago loss of 19 cents.

R&D expenses were down 38.9% to $11 million while G&A expenses were up 2.7% to $19.3 million.

How Have Estimates Been Moving Since Then?

Analysts were quiet during the last two month period as none of them issued any earnings estimate revisions.

Geron Corporation Price and Consensus

Geron Corporation Price and Consensus | Geron Corporation Quote

VGM Scores

At this time, GERN has a poor Growth Score of F, however its Momentum is doing a lot better with an A. However, the stock was allocated a grade of F on the value side, putting it in the lowest quintile for this investment strategy.

Overall, the stock has an aggregate VGM Score of F. If you aren't focused on one strategy, this score is the one you should be interested in.

The company's stock is suitable solely for momentum based on our styles scores.

Outlook

GERN has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). We expect an in-line return from the stock in the next few months.



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Geron Corporation (GERN) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchDespite a strong surprise history, Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) stock plunges more than 19% in the last two trading sessions, mainly due to a bleak outlook for fiscal 2018.

A month has gone by since the last earnings report for Superior Industries International, Inc. SUP. Shares have lost about 10.7% in that time frame.

Will the recent negative trend continue leading up to its next earnings release, or is SUP due for a breakout? Before we dive into how investors and analysts have reacted as of late, let's take a quick look at its most recent earnings report in order to get a better handle on the important drivers.

Superior Industries Q4 Earnings Surpass Estimates

Superior Industries’ adjusted earnings of 38 cents per share for fourth-quarter 2017 topped the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 24 cents. Including after-tax expense and the impact of U.S. tax reform, net loss for the quarter was $4.6 million or 50 cents per share.

Revenues were $361.8 million in the reported quarter, missing the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $363.8 million. However, the reported figure was higher than $188.3 million recorded in the year-ago quarter.

Wheel unit shipments were 5.4 million compared with 3.1 million in the prior-year quarter. The rise is primarily due to the addition of its European operations, partly offset by a decline in the North American market compared with the prior-year quarter. Value-added sales, i.e., net sales minus pass-through charges for aluminum, increased to $203.5 million compared with $106.4 million in fourth-quarter 2016.

Gross profit rose to $39.7 million from $18 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase was due to the addition of European operations, partly offset by non-recurring effects of purchase, accounting adjustments of $1.3 million related to the buyout of UNIWHEELS and ongoing amortization of intangibles related to the acquisition.

Selling, general and administrative expenses jumped to $25.9 million in fourth-quarter 2017 from $6.9 million in the prior-year quarter, resulting from the addition of European operations, costs of around $7.2 million linked with the acquisition and integration of UNIWHEELS and compensation expenses in North America.

Full-Year 2017 Results

Superior Industries reported loss of $1.01 per share in 2017, down from earnings per share of $1.62 in 2016.

In 2017, revenues increased to $1,108.1 million from $732.7 million in 2016.

Financial Details

In fourth-quarter 2017, Superior Industries’ net cash, generated from operating activities, was $46.5 million compared with $39.2 million in the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the rise in working capital and the addition of European operations, which were partly offset by expenses related to the acquisition.

Outlook

For 2018, Superior Industries reaffirmed its net sales, value-added sales, adjusted EBITDA, capital expenditures and working capital.

The company expects net sales for 2018 to be $1.45-$1.5 billion, driven by 21.25-21.6 million units of shipment. Superior Industries expects value-added sales to be $800-$835 million. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $185-$200 million. The company projects capital expenditure to be around $95 million.

How Have Estimates Been Moving Since Then?

In the past month, investors have witnessed a downward trend in fresh estimates. There have been two revisions lower for the current quarter.

Superior Industries International, Inc. Price and Consensus

Story ContinuesWhen a company reports its financial results, it usually provides investors with a wealth of information to digest. While it's worthwhile to study a company's results in great detail, it's important to be able to cut right to the heart of the results to understand how the company is doing.

In this column, I'd like to go over three key metrics that investors in chip giant Intel Corp. (NASDAQ: INTC) should focus on whenever the company reports its quarterly earnings results.

A wafer of Intel processors with a chip on top of the wafer. More

Image source: Intel.

1. Revenue growth

Intel is a large, relatively mature company that dominates many of the markets in which it participates, so revenue growth for a behemoth like Intel can be much harder to achieve than it is for a much smaller company.

Nevertheless, it's important for technology companies -- even large ones -- to deliver revenue growth over time, especially as revenue growth is typically required to drive sustainable profit growth.

Intel said back in early 2017 that investors should look for the company to deliver revenue growth in "low single digit" percentages in the subsequent three years (so that's 1% to 3% growth each year beginning in 2017 and going through 2019).

The chip giant delivered 5.7% revenue growth in 2017, exceeding its stated target, and analysts expect the company to turn in 3.6% revenue growth in 2018, and another 3.7% in 2019 -- a little better than what Intel itself guided to.

If Intel can meet or exceed those targets, Wall Street should be happy. If not, then I'd expect the stock price to reflect that disappointment.

2. Gross profit margin

Gross profit margin is another metric that investors should watch. Intel's publicly stated percentage target for gross profit margin is between 55% and 65%, though in recent years the company has delivered numbers solidly in the upper end of that range.

INTC Gross Profit Margin (Annual) Chart More

INTC Gross Profit Margin (Annual) data by YCharts.

During Intel's 2017 investor meeting, the company told investors to expect its gross profit margin percentages in 2017, 2018, and 2019 to be in the upper half of that range, or at least 60%.

Now, this figure has historically represented Intel's competitiveness (e.g. processor pricing power and product cost structure) and to a large degree it still does (which is why higher is generally better here). However, Intel's business has become more diverse in recent years as the company tries to sell products beyond computer processors.Tired of keeping a close eye on financial news and popping in and out of positions in an effort to get the most out of an increasingly volatile market?

If so, you’re not alone. There is a solution, however, for investors who’ve become mentally exhausted thanks to a bull market that has now persisted for a stunning nine years — just buy some dividend stocks and stop watching the market every day. Go find a new hobby instead. With some stocks, you really are better off just leaving them alone and letting time do the hard work for you.

With that as the backdrop, if you don’t know how or where to start a hunt for new income-oriented holdings, here’s a look at ten great dividend stocks that would at home in almost any investor’s portfolio. They’re all more reliable than average, and represent companies that can weather almost any storm.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

In no certain order…

Editor’s Note: This article originally ran January 9, 2018. It has since been republished to reflect changes in dividend yield.





Dividend Stocks to Buy: AT&T (T)

Dividend Stocks to Buy: AT&T (T) More

Source: Mike Mozart via Flickr

Dividend Yield: 5.7%

Telecom giant AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is an oldie but a goodie, and with uncharacteristic weakness from the stock since the middle of 2016, the dividend yield has been pumped up to an impressive 5.7%. That’s a dividend that has been paid every quarter for the past few decades, by the way, and raised like clockwork every year since 1984.

Sure, AT&T has got headaches right now, even beyond its usual competition. The deal to pair up with Time Warner Inc (NYSE:TWX) hasn’t exactly been smooth sailing. Industry insiders are relatively certain it’s going to happen despite the DOJ’s interference though, and in that AT&T is leading the race to make 5G connectivity a reality, it should be able to keep its wireless competitors in check at the same time it ramps up enrollments in its streaming cable service DirecTV Now.

AT&T looks to be firing on all cylinders.





Dividend Stocks to Buy: Blackstone Group (BX)

Dividend Stocks to Buy: Blackstone Group (BX) More

Source: Shutterstock

Dividend Yield: 8.77%

Blackstone Group LP (NYSE:BX) isn’t a traditional company. In fact, it’s not a company at all. It’s an organization that owns and financially supports a variety of other companies, and in some cases gets involved in the management of them. It’s a private equity firm, but it’s so much more than just that.

Additionally, it’s good at what it does, and that’s good for income-seeking investors. While the dividend payout can vary unpredictably from one quarter to the next, broadly speaking it has been on the rise for quite some time, and a dividend of some sort has always been dished out. And if the economy heats and up in interest rates rise, much like a bank, that’s very good for Blackstone’s bottom line as it will eventually makes its way back into the pocket of shareholders.

The dividend yield of 8.7%, in the meantime, isn’t too shabby either.





Dividend Stocks to Buy: AmTrust Financial Services (AFSI)

Dividend Stocks to Buy: AmTrust Financial Services (AFSI) More

Source: 401(K) 2012 via Flickr (Modified)

Dividend Yield: 5.43%It’s just April. Because this is baseball, that is an entirely reasonable explanation for the problem. And so, too, is the weather, the nasty, Mother Nature-must-be-pissed-at-someone sort of frigid that canceled half a dozen more games Sunday afternoon and is threatening to set records for postponements.

And yet one look at the numbers across Major League Baseball shows a grim landscape. Not in home runs (which are down) or strikeouts (which are up) but attendance. Which isn’t just down – it is down precipitously, enough that one league official expressed concern that this isn’t simply a manifestation of the weather but something deeper and more troublesome for the game.

“I’m worried,” he said. “The tanking scares me.”

Inside front offices all spring, officials wondered whether the significant number of teams that neither spent in free agency nor harbored realistic notions of contention would have a tangible, negative effect on fans attending games. And while, yes, it is April, and, yes, it certainly is frickin’ freezing in here, Mr. Bigglesworth, and, yes, it is a small sample of games, the disintegration of crowd size around the game is alarming enough to track.

Compared to last season at this juncture, the Boston Red Sox are down about 2,500 fans a game. For the Chicago Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals, it’s nearly 5,000. The Cleveland Indians’ average crowd has dropped more than 5,000, the Texas Rangers’ more than 7,000 and the Pittsburgh Pirates more than 7,500. The Toronto Blue Jays, Detroit Tigers and Kansas City Royals each are in the 8,000-fan range, and the Miami Marlins are pushing 10,000. The most severe is the Baltimore Orioles, who have played six games at home and are at almost 16,000 fewer per.

Even if some are obviously weather-related, the numbers are nevertheless staggering. The average crowd of 27,532 over the 221 MLB games played this season is about 2,700 fans per game lower than last year through the same point. Over the course of a full season, that would amount to a drop of more than 6.5 million fans.

Story Continues

Now, the last time the league suffered through an April with more postponements than this was 2007. Over the first 225 games that season, the average crowd was 29,888. By the end of the year, that number leaped to 32,704 per game for a total of more than 79.5 million, still the largest attendance figure in the game’s history.

The average crowd of 27,532 over the 221 MLB games played this season is about 2,700 fans per game lower than last year’s figure through the same point. (Getty Images)

Perhaps this April is merely a blip, and crowds will fill stadiums all summer, and the rest-of-the-year-vs.-April attendance jumps by nearly 3,000 as it did back in ’07, and all is well. Except last year, attendance actually was higher in April than the rest of the season. In the previous four years, the April-to-later jump averaged fewer than 500 fans per game. A fortuitous bump may not be in the offing.

Attendance has stayed fairly stable since the boom of the late 2000s waned. For the eight-year stretch leading into 2017, it fluctuated between 73 million and 75 million a year. In 2017, it sunk below the 73 million-fan mark for the first time since 2002. So while …

1. Major League Baseball pushes the $10 billion mark in annual revenue and is shrinking the amount it funnels to players, a dip in attendance would sound an alarm for a sport whose health depends on the success of its parochialism. Baseball, like politics, is a local game, and for every city that loses fans, it wants others to gain.

So it could quite rightfully point to Houston’s year-over-year gain of more than 10,000 per game or Seattle jumping 5,000-plus or Arizona or Milwaukee – dome, dome, warm, dome. And it could, and probably will, say that all you need is good weather for April baseball to thrive. And that may well be true. Problem is, the season started in March this year, and April has been nasty, too, and no obvious solution to the weather problem exists.

Play most of April in warm-weather cities? The cold-weather teams will be salty they never host a game on Opening Day – not to mention tired of being on the road after six weeks of spring training – and the warm-weather ones will be disappointed to waste home games in April when warm summer days are better moneymakers.

Push back the start of the season? Sure! And wind up with a World Series that runs even deeper into November than it already does? Playoff expansion, plus four extra off-days the players negotiated into the last collective-bargaining agreement, has made late March the new normal.

Doubleheaders? Well, yeah. That actually sounds pretty smart. Two a month in May, June, July and August, to capture the out-of-school crowd. Hold them on Tuesday, among the two lowest-attended days of the week, and do so after a mandatory Monday off-day. Take those eight days is saves and shave them off the front and back of the calendar.

This would be perfect if both the owners and players weren’t against it. Owners hate it because doubleheaders typically mean less revenue. Players despise the long days. Both are reasonable reactions, even if the league could market and monetize the doubleheaders and the players could negotiate something like two or three extra players that could be used for them.

These sorts of ideas gain traction only in the years when the weather stinks, which is a shame, because it shouldn’t take a series of bad events to plan in service of fans. Fresh ideas with ancillary benefits sound pretty decent in lieu of something unrealistic, like having …

2. Gerrit Cole start every game. It would be nice for every city to get to root for a starting pitcher with 36 strikeouts in 21 innings. The 10 hits and four walks aren’t bad, either. As if the defending-champion Astros needed something else to go right, their No. 4 starter has been the best pitcher in baseball.

Yes, he’s got some competition from teammates Justin Verlander and Charlie Morton, plus Chris Sale and Clayton Kershaw and Dylan Bundy and Corey Kluber and Jose Berríos and Noah Syndergaard and, wow, there’s been quite a bit of good pitching over these first four turns through the rotation. Cole’s has been especially enjoyable to watch because of yet another Astros transformation.

Cole is throwing his fastball at a career-low rate, 53 percent, down from 60 percent last season. His slider and curveball now combine for nearly 40 percent of his pitches – and the slider in particular has renewed emphasis. Of the 64 sliders Cole has thrown, 21 have landed in the dirt and away to right-handed hitters. Seven have induced swings and misses. “He’s really finishing the slider,” said one scout who has seen Cole this season.

Cole isn’t going full-blown Astros, as his high-fastball percentage actually has dropped, even as his spin rate on the pitch has increased. Theoretically, that would make high fastballs more effective, as higher spin rates mean the ball drops less and has a rising effect. Whatever he’s doing, he ought continue: Batters are hitting .059 against Cole’s fastball, with 17 strikeouts on it in 34 at-bats. His only shortcoming has been the home run, with three solo shots accounting for each of the runs he has allowed.

Minute Maid Park isn’t exactly the easiest place to be a flyball pitcher, and Cole’s groundball rate of 22.9 percent is the lowest in the major leagues. It’s a fairly similar profile, actually, to

3. Max Scherzer, who may be the only pitcher having a better start to the season than Cole. Scherzer’s 38 strikeouts lead the major leagues. His 27 innings are best in the National League, just two-thirds of an inning behind Oakland’s Sean Manaea for tops across both leagues. He barely ever walks anyone. Hitters rarely square him up. And … of course he’s got a new pitch.

Well, it’s not entirely new. Scherzer has thrown a cut fastball before. Last year, according to the indispensable team at PitchInfo, Scherzer threw his cutter about 4.2 percent of the time and his slider close to 25 percent. In his four starts this season, the cutter has jumped to more than 16 percent and the slider slid to 11.3 percent.

Scherzer uses them in quite obvious ways, too: He throws the cutter around 88 mph exclusively to left-handed hitters. It was his fifth-most frequently used pitch to them last year; this year it’s second only to the fastball. Scherzer’s slider, on the other hand, is a touch slower at 85 mph and a weapon he utilizes liberally against right-handed hitters to complement his fastball.

Though newly unsheathed, the cutter has been an effective pitch so far and a testament not just to Scherzer’s physical mastery but his desire, even at 33, to better himself. His desire to learn is manifest, his capacity to do so just as obvious. Two straight Cy Youngs and three in five years weren’t enough for Scherzer. Neither were four pitches. He could’ve easily gone the route of …

4. Josh Hader, practically perfected two pitches and struck out the world with them. Between his fastball and slider, Hader has a chance to be a strikeout machine on the level of Aroldis Chapman, Billy Wagner and Andrew Miller, the patron saints of left-handed punchouts.

In his scintillating debut last season, Hader struck out 12.84 batters per nine. Only seven lefty relievers ever had posted a better rate. It’s also piddling compared to this year, when Hader has recorded 22 of his 29 outs via the strikeout – a rate of 20.48 per nine. He has appeared in six games this year and hasn’t struck out fewer than three in any. In his last outing, a two-inning save against the Mets, Hader struck out the first five hitters he faced, all swinging.

With the fastball sitting around 93 mph and the slider 82, his stuff is more Miller than Chapman and Wagner. And that’s how manager Craig Counsell is using him – more as a fireman than a traditional closer. With Corey Knebel out, that could change, though Counsell well understands the value of a strikeout machine, particularly in an era when …

5. Aaron Judge can strike out 30 percent of the time and make a strong case for MVP. He’s doing it again this year, albeit with a slightly lower whiff rate (25.8 percent) and an even more overwhelming offensive onslaught.

Lost in Judge’s monumental power is the quality of his eye. Judge is swinging at just 37.9 percent of pitches thrown at him this season, even though nearly a quarter of those he has seen have been his flaw as recently as last postseason: the slider. Judge adjusted, and on 15 balls in play against sliders this year, he is hitting .600 – 9 for 15, with six singles and three doubles. It’s a staggering improvement and the sort that could flip the scouting report on Judge – particularly with his swing-and-miss tendencies this year on changeups.

If this is the new Judge – the guy with the biggest raw power in the game slashing .340/.470/.566 and eliminating weak spots – then his ceiling is even higher than imagined. It’s also proof that even the best hitters can become entirely new versions of themselves, as …

6. Robinson Cano is proving this season. For a soon-to-be-26-year-old like Judge that’s one thing. At 35, Cano is entirely different, which makes his 2018 perhaps most remarkable of all.

For his entire career, Cano has been a free swinger. It has behooved him. Among the eight All-Star Games, the career average of .305 and the paucity of second basemen in the Hall of Fame, Cano has a good shot at going to Cooperstown in spite of a career on-base percentage of .355. Which is due, of course, to that swinging. Cano hacked at 52 percent of the pitches he saw last year, 51.3 percent over his career. The low total: 49.2 percent.

So how to explain this year, when Cano is swinging at only 38.3 percent of pitches thrown and has a 22 percent walk rate – more than three times his career average? “I’m really trying to wait for good pitches,” he said last week. “It’s taken me a long time, but I understand that I know the zone and if I get my pitch, I’ll hit it hard.”

Plate-discipline epiphany or not, the change that has Cano slashing .375/.537/.475 may not be sustainable at this level but could be very real. Plate-discipline stats tend to stabilize somewhere between 50 and 100 plate appearances, according to Russell Carleton, and an OBP-centric Cano would be one hell of a way to justify the back half of his contract.

It’s why Freddie Freeman and his 25.4 percent walk rate are so invaluable and Bryce Harper and his 25 percent walk rate can reasonably ask for a contract that starts with a 4 and Joe Mauer and his 22.7 percent walk rate are making the last year of his $184 million deal look good. Plate discipline is also what makes the …

7. Matts Who Play Third Base so intriguing. Matt No. 1 is Matt Chapman. He has been the best player in baseball this year, according to FanGraphs, and third best, per Baseball Reference. Two years ago, when he was striking out nearly 30 percent of the time at Double-A, Chapman looked as much like someone who might not make enough contact to survive in the major leagues as anything.

His glove and power bought him a ticket to the big leagues, and the A’s have been thankful ever since. After piling up nearly three wins above replacement in half a season last year, Chapman’s bat has caught up to his fielding this season. He’s slugging nearly .700 and has chopped his strikeout rate nearly in half, to 16.9 percent.

Matt No. 2 is Matt Davidson. At 27, he is three years older than Chapman. His route to the major leagues was far more circuitous, from first-round pick in 2009 to someone who looked like a 4A guy after being stuck in the minor leagues until he finally cracked the White Sox’s roster last season. His power was obvious. His 165-to-19 strikeout-to-walk ratio? Well, that was obvious as well.

Already Davidson has drawn nine walks this year, and even if one takes away his three-homer opening day, the trend line is positive and shows that one’s destiny is not always presaged. This is the sort of advice from which the …

8. Miami Marlins could learn. Last week, the Marlins attempted to steer a lawsuit against the club by the city of Miami and Miami-Dade County to federal court by claiming the team as a corporate citizen of the British Virgin Islands. Yes, a team based in Miami that built its stadium using tax dollars from Florida residents had the temerity to make that argument because a corporation that owns a share of the Marlins’ new holding company is supposedly operated out of the BVI.

The ever-enterprising Andy Slater took a little road trip to check it out, and what he unearthed was so very Marlins.

SLATER SCOOP: I found the Marlins office in the British Virgin Islands. pic.twitter.com/dIraoI5aKC — Andy Slater (@AndySlater) April 14, 2018





A P.O. Box. It’s perfectly absurd. This entire scenario exists only because the city and county are trying to recoup money from Jeffrey Loria’s sale of the Marlins to the Bruce Sherman-led group. Loria and the team are claiming they don’t owe a cent and would rather move the case to arbitration, something Miami is resisting.

Just another Marlins moment, one being repaid with the lowest attendance in baseball. Marlins CEO Derek Jeter, in the meantime, said he wouldn’t accompany the team to Yankee Stadium starting today, fearful that it would be an “awkward situation.” Going to a place where you are beloved doesn’t seem nearly as awkward as trying to use a laughable legal argument to avoid giving money to taxpayers who were fleeced out of it to begin with, but, hey, he’s the boss. Of the second-worst team in the NL. Who are behind the …

9. Los Angeles Dodgers, the third-worst team in the NL. Between the Dodgers and Washington Nationals, it hasn’t been a good start of the season for teams with aspirations for triple-digit victories.

The Dodgers finally beat the Diamondbacks on Sunday, snapping an 11-game regular-season losing streak to Arizona and moving their record to 5-9 behind a vintage 12-strikeout, no-walk Kershaw performance. The Dodgers haven’t hit. They’ve been a bit unlucky on the pitching side. They’ll be fine.

They are not Tigers awful or Royals awful or Marlins awful or Rays awful or Reds awful. There is a lot of bad product being played around …

10. Major League Baseball these days, and once the weather turns, that is going to be the ultimate test, one that could be the salvation players are seeking: If there is a lack of competitiveness during the 2018 season, will fans notice enough to care and stop showing up at the stadium?

One team that wasn’t mentioned earlier in terms of attendance dips was Philadelphia. Even though the Phillies are a demonstrably better team this year than last, their attendance cratered by nearly 6,500 fans per game over their first six. Why? Last year, the hated Nationals and Mets came to Citizens Bank Park for the first two series. This season, it was Miami and Cincinnati – the latter three games played in 40-degree chills in front of about 20,000 per. Baltimore just finished a three-game series against division rival Toronto in which it drew 26,954 – total.

Again, it was cold, and that matters. Soon enough, baseball will know exactly how much it matters. Every day is another data point, a sign that MLB, after players’ winter of discontent, is doing just fine. Or maybe it will learn that fans are smart enough to understand that a substandard team on TV beats whatever ambiance expensive tickets and overpriced concessions provide.

In a couple months, when the weather has turned, when the sample is big enough, when all of the potential variables are clear, MLB will understand whether this was an anomaly or something about which it should be concerned. Until then, some of the most fascinating numbers in baseball won’t be recorded on the field. They’ll be at the turnstiles.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• JamesHarrison announces retirement

• 44-year-old pitcher flirts with perfect game

• 49ers star not with team due to domestic violence case

• LeBron suffers rare first-round playoff defeat

Jerry Stackhouse has seen his coaching star rise with the G League’s Raptors 905. (AP)

The Charlotte Hornets and Orlando Magic plan to interview Jerry Stackhouse — head coach of the Toronto Raptors’ G League team — for their head-coaching positions, league sources told Yahoo Sports.

Stackhouse will also interview for the New York Knicks’ coaching job this week, league sources said.

Stackhouse led the Raptors 905 to the G League championship game in both of his seasons as head coach. He joined Toronto as an assistant for the Raptors in 2015. In 2016-17, Stackhouse won G League Coach of the Year and helped lead 905 to a championship. The team lost to the Austin Spurs in the G League finals this year.

Charlotte, Orlando and New York parted with coaches Steve Clifford, Frank Vogel and Jeff Hornacek, respectively, last week.

Stackhouse, 43, was a two-time All-Star in an 18-year playing career that began in 1995, when he was the third overall pick by the Philadelphia 76ers.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• JamesHarrison announces retirement

• 44-year-old pitcher flirts with perfect game

• 49ers star not with team due to domestic violence case

• LeBron suffers rare first-round playoff defeat

The Denver Broncos just cut running back C.J. Anderson, who started all 16 games for them last season. The Broncos have the fifth pick of next week’s NFL draft. Saquon Barkley is the best running back prospect to come along in many years.

There will be a lot of dots connected after Monday’s news that Anderson, who rushed for 1,007 yards last season and has been the Broncos regular starter since 2014, was cut. That was reported by Nicki Jhabvala of The Athletic and many other outlets. The Broncos had tried to trade Anderson but couldn’t find a partner.

Seeing as how the move came less than two weeks before the draft, there are some moving pieces to what seems like a fairly normal April transaction.

Does this mean Saquon Barkley lands in Denver?

The first issue is that Barkley might not be there when the Broncos draft fifth overall. Nobody seems to know what the New York Giants are doing at No. 2. The same goes for the Cleveland Browns at No. 4. And even if Barkley falls to No. 5, if a quarterback the Broncos like also falls to that spot, they’ll have to be tempted. Case Keenum is on just a two-year deal. Denver needs a quarterback for 2020 and beyond.

But if Barkley does fall, it really is a nice fit.

The Broncos need playmakers for their offense. They’re surprisingly thin at receiver and tight end after Demaryius Thomas and Emmanuel Sanders. They don’t have a great option at running back anymore, unless you’re a big believer in Devontae Booker. Barkley is such a versatile performer, and an impact player from Week 1 on, he would fix a lot of what ails Denver’s offense. Barkley would be the Broncos’ de facto third receiver, and maybe even battle to lead the team in receptions. It would certainly be no surprise if the Broncos took Barkley, if he’s there.

What are the Broncos’ options with the fifth pick?

Story Continues

Denver is one of the most interesting teams in a very interesting draft. They are in a great spot at No. 5. Because of the short-team deal to Keenum, a quarterback is in play if one falls. Also, if a quarterback falls, a team like the Arizona Cardinals or Buffalo Bills might be willing to overpay to trade up and get one.

If the top four quarterbacks go with the first four picks, that means the Broncos can get the top non-quarterback prospect on their board (and the Broncos don’t need a quarterback, so they don’t have to pull a New York Jets and completely overpay to move up). Guard Quenton Nelson would help an offensive line that seems to be constantly rebuilding. Bradley Chubb and Von Miller would make an unbelievable pass-rush duo. Minkah Fitzpatrick would make the secondary a big strength again, after the team traded Aqib Talib. And then there’s Barkley.

Denver is in a great spot at No. 5, because they have a lot of cards they could play.

Why cut C.J. Anderson if there’s no guarantee to get Barkley?

Anderson was slated to make $4.5 million, and Denver didn’t want to pay that. Part of the reason is that even if the Broncos don’t get Barkley, they should get a very good rookie running back. This rookie running back class is very deep. There should be possible Week 1 starters in the early and middle rounds, and maybe even a couple in the late rounds. It’s possible LSU’s Derrius Guice is available to Denver early in the second round. If Guice is gone, and he probably should be by then, someone like USC’s Ronald Jones or Georgia’s Nick Chubb could be available.

Whether it’s Barkley or someone else, it doesn’t seem like the Broncos’ starting running back is on the roster right now.

Will Anderson be a starter again in 2018?

Anderson probably won’t be a 16-game starter like he was last season, but he’s just 27 and coming off a nice season. He averaged 4.1 yards per carry and caught 24 passes in a bad Broncos offense that had one of the worst quarterback situations in the NFL. He’s smart, versatile and would add value to many teams. Anderson’s options might be limited because of that rookie running back class though. A lot of teams will draft cheap, talented options and want to roll with them instead of a higher-priced veteran like Anderson.

Penn State running back Saquon Barkley is expected to go very early in next week’s NFL draft. (AP)

– – – – – – –

Frank Schwab is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at shutdown.corner@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter!



More from Yahoo Sports:

• JamesHarrison announces retirement

• 44-year-old pitcher flirts with perfect game

• 49ers star not with team due to domestic violence case

• LeBron suffers rare first-round playoff defeat

Former Patriots wide receiver Danny Amendola has moved on to the Miami Dolphins, and he's opening up about his feelings toward former coach Bill Belichick.

When asked of his decision to sign with the Miami Dolphins in free agency, Amendola said the Patriots's offer was not close to others he received, according to ESPN.

"I came in with an open mind," Amendola told ESPN. "I understand Bill [Belichick] runs a tight ship, and he hasn't been known to pay his players, really. I understood that I gave money back to him so I could play for him and play for my teammates and fulfill my side of the contract, and at the end of the day, I had faith that he was going to give me an opportunity to stay."

That didn't happen and Amendola signed a two-year, $12 million contract with the Dolphins. The deal also included $8.25 million in bonuses and guarantees.

"When free agency broke, I came to the realization that [Belichick] wasn't going to really come close to any of the other offers I had," Amendola said. "I had to make a decision for my family and go down to Miami and continue my career there."

Amendola played for the Patriots for five seasons, racking up 2,383 receiving yards and scoring 12 touchdowns. He played in 13 playoff games with the team, scoring 6 touchdowns.

The wide receiver went on to describe Belichick as the "best coach to ever coach the game," but admitted things he disliked about the experience.

"It's not that easy, that's for sure," Amendola said. "There were a lot of things I didn't like about playing for him, but I must say, the things I didn't like were in regards to getting the team better, and I respected him. I didn't like practicing in the snow, I didn't like practicing in the rain, but that was going to make us a better football team and that was going to make me a better football player."

Story Continues

Asked of Belichick's decision to bench Malcolm Butler during Super Bowl LII, Amendola expressed his confusion over the choice.

"To tell you the truth, I don't know why," Amendola said. "I did ask, but I didn't get any answers...Malcolm is a great player and he could have helped us win."With under two weeks until the start of the 2018 NFL draft, it’s hard to tell what to believe and what not to. The confusion starts at first overall with the Cleveland Browns. They seem to be down to choosing between quarterbacks Josh Allen and Sam Darnold with the first overall pick. But after months of going with Darnold, things change this week. Here’s this week’s mock draft: 1. Cleveland Browns: Josh Allen, QB, Wyoming This would not be a smart pick. This would be a very Browns pick. However, as the draft approaches, there are more and more people connecting Allen to the Browns. There’s been the friend of Browns General Manager John Dorsey saying it. Radio host Dan Patrick has said the BrownsLast summer, a frustrated Cavaliers owner Dan Gilbert said the Pacers “could’ve done better than it did” in the trade that landed them Victor Oladipo for Paul George from Oklahoma City.

Oladipo heard that. He remembered. And Sunday in Game 1 of the Eastern Conference playoffs when his Pacers took on the Cavaliers Oladipo was the best player on the court, finishing with 32 points on 19 shots (6-of-9 from three), six rebounds, and four steals. The Pacers took it to the heavily favorited Cavaliers and won Game 1 by 18. After the game, Oladipo was asked if his Game 1 performance and Gilbert’s comment were connected, as reported by Dave McMenamin of ESPN.

“You could say it added fuel to the fire, I guess you could say,” Oladipo said after Game 1. “But that was so long ago. It came up recently, obviously, because we were playing the Cavs in the series, but I’m aware of what he said. Can’t control his opinion. All I’m focused on is myself and becoming the best Victor Oladipo possible.”

It would be very Kobe Bryant of Oladipo to use that comment as fuel — turn any perceived slight, real or imagined, into something to motivate you.

Except, Gilbert wasn’t really taking a shot at Oladipo — he was frustrated with Pacers management because the Cavs thought they had a deal for George. According to ESPN’s Adrian Wojnarowski and other reporting, the two sides were deep into talks for a three-team deal including Denver that would have landed the Pacers Gary Harris, Trey Lyles, and the Cavaliers first-round pick. The trade was far enough along that Gilbert was setting up a phone call with George, the player he wanted to put next to LeBron — Gilbert thought he had a deal. Then, from his perspective, the rug was pulled out from under him when the Pacers took the Oklahoma City offer instead. Gilbert’s comments were about that, not Oladipo directly. Not that it matters, it’s about perception and Oladipo can take it however he wants.

Story Continues

Looking at it now, the Cavaliers really could have used that trade. The decisions they made after it did not pan out nearly as well, and while George broke out Playoff P and was the best player on the floor in OKC’s win over Utah, the Cavaliers were floundering in Game 1.

Instead, now LeBron James and the Cavaliers have an Oladipo problem.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• James Harrison announces retirement

• 44-year-old pitcher flirts with perfect game

• 49ers star not with team due to domestic violence case

• LeBron suffers rare first-round playoff defeatShohei Ohtani has been getting a lot of attention with his transition to the Angels after leaving Japan. Despite that, he apparently appreciates silence when at bat.

Three Japanese college women, all exchange students, were attending the Angels game against the Royals in Kansas City Friday night when they were asked to quiet down, according to USA Today.

The students were reportedly cheering loudly for Ohtani during his at bats. A security guard came over to their seats and said the visiting dugout requested they keep it down.

Only 15,011 fans were present in Kauffman Stadium, reports USA Today, but it's not unusual for fans to be loud at ballgames.

"He heard it, he's thankful for the cheers," said Ippei Mizuhara, Ohtani's interpreter, to USA Today. "but at the plate, he likes to focus and block out the noise."

Ohtani appreciated the girls quieting down after the Angels made their request.

"I was aware of that but I wasn't the one that asked for that," said Ohtani. "[The Angels] just did it so everyone could focus at the plate."

Ohtani went 2-for-4 with his first double on Friday night.

Apparently a little silence goes a long way.LEXINGTON, Ky. — Sacha Killeya-Jones received interest from more than 30 college basketball programs after he announced he would transfer from Kentucky earlier this month. The sophomore forward's list was recently trimmed to Arizona State, Clemson, Georgetown, Nevada, NC State, Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, Texas, North Carolina, and Wake Forest, his mother Ley Killeya-Jones confirmed to Courier Journal Saturday. Killeya-Jones plans to take visits in early May after classes at Kentucky end, said Ley Killeya-Jones, a research associate at UNC's school of pharmacy. Related headlines ►Kevin Knox is leaving UK for the NBA. Here's what it means. ►What Shai Gilgeous-Alexander heading to the NBA meansImitation is the sincerest form of flattery. A genuine compliment to an individual or idea, even if it is often times unintended. The NFL landscape is a living testament of this old adage. With the 2018 NFL Draft fast approaching, it is impossible to watch any pre-draft programming, or prospect interviews, without being reminded of this fact. Countless young men about to embark on their professional football journeys enthusiastically recall how they patterned their playing style after their childhood football hero or role model. Team executives will spill out of NFL war rooms on draft day and confess their desire to emulate another franchise who presumably is ahead of the curve when it comesOAKLAND — The Warriors did exactly what they needed to do in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series with the San Antonio Spurs on Saturday. After roughly a month of lackadaisical, half-hearted play to finish the regular season, the Warriors played their opening game of the postseason with an acute focus and undeniable defensive energy. In turn, they looked like the world-beating, record-setting Warriors once again, even without Stephen Curry in the lineup. Now the Warriors just need to do the same thing again. And again. And again. Specifically, the Warriors need to play with that same energy and focus at least 15 more times if they plan on winning their third championship in four years thisOAKLAND -- One enjoys yoga sessions and hanging out the beach, and the other savors a fine, fine, fine cabernet with his evening meal.

One wears his sense of humor on his face, and the other hides his behind a beard.

One makes his point with sarcasm and a smile, and the other is quick to unveil a withering scowl behind a mouth screaming profanities.

Yet when Warriors coach Steve Kerr and Spurs coach Gregg Popovich are in the company of each other, the differences, both distinct and cosmetic, fade away and they cannot conceal their mutual affection. A relationship that started 20 years ago within the NBA has over the years evolved to such a level it far transcends basketball, even if that's what brings them together Saturday in Oakland.

Most people around the NBA refer to Popovich as, simply, "Pop." He is 69 years old and in his 22nd season coaching in San Antonio. He is a three-time Coach of the Year. His teams have won five championships and made the playoffs 21 consecutive seasons. In the world's greatest basketball league, Pop is the platinum standard.

He commands respect, if not reverence, from all. Kerr, however, goes a step further. When he speaks of Popovich it is apparent he is speaking of someone who may be the closest person he has to a living father.

"Remove the sarcasm," Kerr said this week, after joking he "likes to see" Popovich lose because he has experienced so much success as a coach. "I want Pop to win against anybody else. We're that close. He's my mentor and he's somebody I feel incredibly strongly about in terms of who he is and what he did for me in my life and what he's doing for my son right now.

"So I want Pop to win against anybody else."

Kerr's oldest son, Nick, is a video intern for the Spurs and his father takes comfort in knowing his boy is in good hands. He is with . . . family.

Story Continues

Understand, though, Kerr wants Popovich to lose Saturday when the teams meet for Game 1 of their first-round Western Conference series. Kerr then wants Popovich to lose three more times, so the Warriors can advance. Again.

Their teams are meeting for the second consecutive postseason. Kerr's Warriors dominated last May, sweeping the Spurs in four games to represent the Western Conference in the NBA Finals. Once again, the Warriors are heavy favorites.

Somewhere inside Kerr's heart, he wishes there a way they both could claim victory.

"He's just an incredibly sharp, compassionate, fearless human being," Kerr said. "It shines through not only in his coaching but also in the way he approaches life. He made a big impact on me. And it was interesting. I really didn't play that much for him. I did not have a good run with the Spurs. I had a handful of good games, but it was not really a successful four seasons for me. Most of the time, I was on the bench and it didn't really pan out. But it was an amazing experience."

Of Serbian and Croatian ancestry, Popovich is worldly. Attended the Air Force Academy in the turbulent 1960s and played basketball there. Earned a degree in Soviet studies there and then a master's in physical education and sports sciences at the University of Denver. Pop spent five years in the military, much of it playing hoops for the U.S. Armed Forces team in the then-Soviet Union and parts of Eastern Europe. He coached at the Air Force Academy, then at a small college in Southern California before joining Larry Brown at Kansas University and then to the Spurs. Popovich then spent two seasons as an assistant to Don Nelson with the Warriors before returning to San Antonio in 1994.

Pop has been a few places, seen a few things and done a lot. For someone like Kerr, who lost his father, Prof. Malcolm Kerr, in 1984 to the bullets of assassins in Beirut, it's natural he'd be drawn to someone like Popovich.

Kerr had been without a father for 14 years when he landed, late in his career, in San Antonio. Pop immediately expressed an interest in the life of the new guy, who had won three championship rings with Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls. Out of that came a bond that has only gotten stronger.

Both Kerr and Popovich are outspoken, progressive thinkers, willing to express opinions beyond the game. That's how the "Popovich-Kerr" ticket for the 2020 presidential race was born. It's a joke, but with a rich undercurrent of wishful thinking that led to a still-active website that neither man takes seriously.

Though they have contrasting approaches to coaching, both crave victory in every endeavor. Warriors forward David West, who spent a season in San Antonio under Popovich, says the most noticeable difference is Kerr's intensity simmers while Pop's boils over.

When his Warriors sent Pop's Spurs into the offseason last May, Kerr acknowledged feeling at least somewhat bittersweet.

Kerr, 52, probably felt less so the next time he shared a meal, and at least a bottle of fine wine, with his mentor. Popovich surely had moved past the failure, and he has done more than his part in helping Kerr do the same.

"First thing I learned from him is that you just keep going," Kerr said. "You keep going, no matter what. In my four seasons there, we won two titles. We lost in the first round. We lost in Conference Finals. We had injuries. We had good health. We had everything in between. You just keep going. You take whatever is in front of you and embrace. You let everybody else . . . write about it, talk about it.

"One of the reasons we're able to live these great lives is what we do is really popular. We're going to be criticized for it. We're going to be judged. We're going to be celebrated and everything in between. That was probably the best lesson I learned from Pop."

It's a meaningful lesson, one any father could pass on to his child, no matter how many ways they might be different.To be honest, we learned a lot more than just five things through the first eight games of the NBA playoffs. We learned that the Bucks are a spectacular combination of talented and flawed. We learned the Raptors can win the first game of a playoff series. We didn’t so much learn as were reminded that Anthony Davis is otherworldly and Jrue Holiday knows how to defend. Yet none of those made this list.

Here are my five biggest takeaways from the first weekend.

• Of course James Harden was brilliant, but the Timberwolves blew their chance to steal Game 1. This was Minnesota’s first playoff game since Kill Bill Vol.2 was in theaters, and it was a rough one. Not because they got blown out — they didn’t — or because James Harden looked every bit the MVP (he did).

Rather, this is a tough one because the Timberwolves blew a chance to take Game 1.

We need to start with the obvious — James Harden is incredibly good at basketball. He had 12 straight points in the fourth and finished the game with 44 points on 26 shots, plus had eight assists. He made up for the fact Chris Paul played like he was still in a Clippers’ uniform, and he made up for the fact the rest of the Rockets shot 3-of-25 from three. Great players can cover up a lot of flaws, and in their opener the Rockets looked flawed outside Harden.

It took all that from Harden to get Houston a 104-101 win. If you’re Houston, it wasn’t pretty but you never question a playoff win. Just take it and move on.

If you’re Minnesota, you blew it. When you’re a massive underdog to an elite team, you can’t throw away an off night from the favorite and not get a win. Yet Minnesota did it, and with the same-old issues — starting with Karl-Anthony Towns didn’t get enough shots. The Rockets switched on KAT — Houston switched everything all season, Minnesota had to know that was coming — then doubled the big man quickly, throwing different looks at him. It threw Towns off his game. Towns shot just 3-of-9 for the night. Thibodeau said he needs Towns to be more aggressive going forward, and he’s right about that, but this felt like a variation of the Minnesota problem of not getting one of the game’s best offensive players enough shots all season long. This is a recurring theme.

Story Continues

Add in the fact Jimmy Butler was just 4-of-11 shooting (same with Jamal Crawford) and there’s just not enough offense from Minnesota’s stars when they needed it, both all game and late in crunch time. Houston is a top-10 defensive team, but Minnesota’s stars have to be better than this — especially in the fourth quarter when Towns had one shot and Butler was 0-of-4. That’s not good enough. (It’s also part of a trend, Butler missed every shot he took this season with the game tied or his team down three or less in the final 10 seconds of games, and as a team Minny struggled in those spots.)

Here’s why Minnesota blew their chance: Houston’s shot chart from three is not going to be red like this again next game, and likely not all series.

• It’s too early to panic about the Cavaliers, but you might want to know where that button is located. If one thing is going to sink Cleveland in the playoffs we expect it to be their dreadful defense, which was 29th in the NBA for the regular season. It wasn’t impressive in Game 1 — Victor Oladipo had 32 points and just kept getting switches off a pick, backing out to isolate, starting from out by the center court logo then blowing past anyone the Cavaliers had on him. The help was rarely there in time. Oladipo had 32 points and was the driving force on both ends for the Pacers. Want to re-think that comment Dan Gilbert?

However, in Game 1 it wasn’t the Cavaliers defense that was dreadful, it was their offense. Cleveland generated far less than a point per possession — an awful 84 points per 100 possessions — and outside of an okay night from LeBron James and a hot J.R. Smith late, they were terrible on that end. Cavaliers not named LeBron or Smith shot 34 percent for the game. Jeff Green was a disaster.

LeBron didn’t do enough either, especially early in establishing a tone. Indiana started Bojan Bogdanovic on him, and LeBron didn’t take advantage of it, going 0-of-3 in the first quarter and working to set up teammates (which didn’t work out).

It’s just one game, and this is a LeBron James team. We should expect them to pick themselves up and perform much better in Game 2. However, we went into this postseason, looking at this reformed roster around LeBron, and were wondering who he could trust to step up when it mattered. Game 1 did not fill him or anyone with confidence. Larry Nance Jr. had moments, Kevin Love will be better, but that’s not enough. It wasn’t against the Pacers Sunday and it will not be in the postseason. Cleveland did not impress anyone for most of the season, and they did not flip a switch when the playoffs started.

• Yes, Ben Simmons is that good. As a rookie. Ben Simmons is not the Sixers best player right now — and that should scare the rest of the NBA. Because he’s insanely good — not just for a rookie, but period. In his playoff debut he was attacking on offense and setting up teammates (J.J. Redick had 23 second-half points for Philly when the pulled away from Miami), plus scoring himself when needed. and making defensive plays, too.

The key thing about that win and Simmons in Game 1 — it keeps the pressure off the Sixers to race Joel Embiid back. Embiid has cleared the league’s concussion protocol and can play in a mask, but he will sit out Game 2. Which is good. Remember Embiid played 63 games this season after playing 31 the season before and zero the two seasons before that. It’s a lot. Embiid feels ready and wants to get out there, but if I’m the Sixers I’m happy to rest him one more game, just to be abundantly cautious.

Simmons lets the Sixers do that.

• Kawhi Leonard speculation is running wild… probably for no good reason. There’s nothing to talk about with the Golden State/San Antonio series, the Spurs have no answers for Kevin Durant and the Warriors athleticism, all of which will make this a short series.

Instead, the focus has turned to why Kawhi Leonard was not on the bench supporting his teammates in Game 1 — as Stephen Curry was doing on the Warriors’ bench — and instead was working out in New York and talking to his doctors. Leonard is going to miss the entire postseason. Which has fueled speculation the Spurs and Leonard have grown distant, that he wants out and they will oblige, and other teams are trying to put together trade packages.

Put the brakes on all that.

Are other teams going to call San Antonio up and ask if he’s available? Of course. They should. Also, teams are going to talk to the Sixers this summer and try to see if Simmons and Embiid are available — this is what GMs do. They probe and test the market. It doesn’t mean a guy is going to get moved, or that a team is even considering it.

Remember what one exec told Sam Amick of the USA Today about the possibility of the Spurs trading Leonard: “It would be a mistake.” When have you known the Spurs to make that kind of mistake?

Here’s what to watch for: On July 1 (or soon after) do the Spurs offer Leonard the $219 million designated veteran max extension he is eligible for? (The deal Russell Westbrook and James Harden got.) The answer will probably be yes, Leonard will sign it, and next September when the Spurs come to camp Leonard and Gregg Popovich will lock arms and sing Kumbaya.

If the Spurs don’t make that offer, then things get interesting. Why didn’t they, what do they know? And will they listen to those trade calls? However, we’re a long way from that.

• Utah’s defense was best in the league, but it was Oklahoma City’s defense that won Game 1. What we all wanted to see in Game 1 of Oklahoma City vs. Utah was the showdown between Russell Westbrook’s attacking game and Rudy Gobert‘s defense in the paint. Gobert had an impact — in the regular season Westbrook got to the rim for 39.5 percent of his shots and took 31.4 percent of his shots from the midrange, but in Game 1 he was at the rim just eight times (32 percent of his shots, and hit only hit half of them) but took 40 percent of his shots in the midrange. Thing is Westbrook hit those shots (6-of-12). If his midrangers fall — and if the Jazz don’t find a better answer for Paul George — the Thunder offense will be fine.

However, that’s not the side of the ball that made it look like OKC could make this series a little easier than we thought.

In the regular season, the Thunder had a top-10 defense and it was on display Sunday — the Jazz had trouble getting penetration into the paint to break down OKC’s defense. Donovan Mitchell had a good game of 27 points on 22 shots, and he got into the paint some, but the Thunder made him really work for those buckets — with defenders other than PG13 on him. George shut down Joe Ingles. Meanwhile, the Thunder helped off Ricky Rubio all game long and dared him to shoot, giving the Spaniard all the space he could want, and he shot just 5-of-18.

How will Utah adjust in Game 2? I’d like to see them go at Carmelo Anthony more. Give Alec Burks more of a role, he was strong in Game 1. The Jazz are not a dominant offensive team, and their defense needs to tighten up (and eventually Westbrook will miss some from the midrange), but Utah has to find a way to get more buckets to have a real shot in this series.Rafael Nadal has had a sly dig at Roger Federer for missing the clay court season again - Getty Images Europe

After one of the flattest months in the history of the ATP tour, world No 1 Rafael Nadal made a welcome return to the stage in Monte Carlo on Sunday, and immediately livened things up with a sly dig at his old ­rival Roger Federer.

Asked about Federer’s decision not to contest a single clay-court event for the second straight season, Nadal grinned broadly. “He says he will love to play against me again in best-of-five sets on clay,” came the reply. “He said that a couple of days ago – and I thought he would play Roland Garros. Then a few days later he says he will not play in one event, so there’s a little bit of controversy with that.”

Nadal did not go into further detail, but clearly he feels that Federer has chickened out. Over the past 15 months, Federer has reshaped the story of their 14-year rivalry by ­winning four straight meetings, all on hard courts. Were they to play on clay, though, Nadal would be heavily favoured to extend his ­overall advantage, which now stands at 23 wins from 38 matches.

Red clay is the blood that runs through Nadal’s veins. For the past decade and more, the eight weeks that run from the start of Monte Carlo to the end of the French Open have been his property. Others might nip in and pick up the odd title – even a slam, in the case of Novak Djokovic (2016), Stan Wawrinka (2015) and Federer himself (2009). But they always feel like crumbs stolen from the giant’s table.

Now Nadal is building up for another crimson-stained campaign, probably starting on Wednesday when he faces either Aljaz Bedene or Mirza Basic here in the second round. “I feel good,” he said during a media appointment at one of Monte Carlo’s many terrace restaurants. “I’m practising well, I am playing with the right intensity I think.” Underneath the high-class linen, one suspected he might have been pawing at the ground.

Story Continues

Federer revealed he would miss the clay court season again when he lost early on in Miami Credit: Getty Images

Admittedly, Nadal’s fitness record has been dreadful of late. He has failed to complete the past three tournaments he has entered – a run dating back to November’s Paris Masters – and did not even bother turning up for Indian Wells or ­Miami.

Yet some would argue that Nadal’s most recent niggle – the recurrence of a hip injury which he announced on Feb 27, a couple of days before his first match in ­Acapulco – might have been exaggerated. The sceptics suggest that Nadal has effectively been playing the same game as Federer, only ­saving himself for the clay instead of the grass.

The theory makes logical sense, even if it stands in the unprovable category. Either way, it feels like a terrible waste that we will have to wait until Wimbledon for the next theoretical chance of enjoying Federer-Nadal XXXIX. Even there, the prospects are remote, given that Nadal has not reached a quarter-final on Centre Court since 2011.

Federer vs Nadal - The five ages of tennis's greatest rivalry

Nadal’s return to Monte Carlo ­derives a little extra kudos from the fact that tennis’s most bankable names – Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, Murray, Wawrinka, Williams, Sharapova – have failed to win a match between them on the tour since March 17. Nadal did, however, produce a pair of strong performances in Valencia just over a week ago to help Spain through a thrilling Davis Cup quarter-final against Germany.

In the absence of these legends, we have seen some unexpected first-time winners, including John Isner claiming his maiden Masters title in Miami.

But British No 1 Kyle Edmund fluffed his lines as he played his own first ATP final in Marrakesh.

Having swept through the first four rounds without dropping a set, Edmund managed only two service holds in his 6-2, 6-2 defeat at the hands of Pablo Andujar, the world No 598.

Andujar’s ranking is deceptive, though, as he had stood as high as No 32 before suffering a series of ­elbow injuries, and had previously won the Marrakesh title twice.

“It was not the result I wanted but, nevertheless, a good week for me,” said Edmund, who will climb to a new career high of No 23 when tomorrow’s chart is published.President Donald Trump is upset about something.

In a tweet Monday morning, Trump fired off a somewhat perplexing thought about China, Russia, currency devaluation, and U.S. monetary policy. All in just 116 characters.

“Russia and China are playing the Currency Devaluation game as the U.S. keeps raising interest rates,” Trump said. “Not acceptable!”

Russia and China are playing the Currency Devaluation game as the U.S. keeps raising interest rates. Not acceptable! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 16, 2018

President Donald Trump. More

The central complaint in Trump’s tweet seems to be that the U.S. dollar — which has been falling from a 13-year high since the election — is falling as a result of the “Currency Devaluation game” that the President believes China and Russia are playing.

The Chinese yuan, however, has gained about 8% against the U.S. dollar since the election. Were the Chinese devaluing their currency, the yuan would be weaker against the dollar.

The decline in the dollar against the yuan indicates that the Chinese government is not likely engaging in a “Currency Devaluation game” as charged by President Donald Trump. (Source: Yahoo Finance) More

The ruble, meanwhile, weakened sharply against the dollar earlier this month when the U.S. announced a new round of economic sanctions against Russia. This also sent Russian stocks lower as well as ruble-denominated debt.

Since the election, however, the dollar is still down about 4% relative to the ruble.

The ruble has recently weakened against the dollar, but is still stronger relative to where it was before the Presidential election. (Source: Yahoo Finance) More

That either Russia, China, or both, are engaged in a wholesale program to devalue their currency to make U.S. exports less competitive — and thus increase the size of the U.S. trade deficit — seems unlikely given these moves.

Over the long term, the value of a country’s currency does reflect the strength of its economy. Shorter-term market and economic dynamics, however, can cause the kinds of depreciation we’ve seen in the dollar recently. Earlier this year, Trump said that he does prefer a strong dollar.

On this background, then, the dollar’s weakness is perhaps being interpreted by Trump as a sign that the U.S. economy is doing poorly and that markets are not rewarding him for what he in January called the “unprecedented economic success and wealth creation that has taken place over the last 12 months.”

Additionally, Trump has made an economy boogeyman out of China with tit-for-tat trade announcements earlier this month roiling financial markets.

A Federal Reserve complaint?

There is, however, a second possibility for interpreting Trump’s tweet. And that is to see it as a complaint about the Federal Reserve’s recent decision and likely future decisions to raise interest rates.

In March, the Fed raised its benchmark interest rate target by 0.25% to a range of 1.5%-1.75%. This set the effective fed funds rate, or the benchmark interest rate at which banks lend money to one another on a short-term basis, at 1.63%, the highest since September 2008.

Additionally, the Fed’s latest projections about the economy and policy released with its March announcement indicated that at least two more interest rate hikes are likely this year.

All else equal, higher interest rates should increase the value of the dollar relative to other currencies.

But a combination of the recovery in other developed economies outpacing U.S. economic growth, expectations for tighter monetary policy in Europe, the dollar unwinding a historic run-up seen from late-2014 through mid-2016, and the U.S. government increasing debt issuance after the tax cuts passed by the Trump administration last year, the dollar has been falling.By Sruthi Shankar

(Reuters) - U.S. stocks rose on Monday, with technology and healthcare shares leading the way as investors appeared less concerned about possible retaliation for the U.S.-led missile attack in Syria.

The weekend's air strikes marked the biggest intervention by Western countries against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his ally Russia, which is facing further economic sanctions over its role in the conflict.

The gains on Wall Street were broad-based as investors shifted their focus to the corporate earnings season, which is expected to get a big boost from the U.S. tax reforms.

S&P 500 companies are expected to report an 18.6 percent jump in first-quarter profit on average, the biggest rise in seven years, according to Thomson Reuters data.

"People are optimistic in the earnings season ... but there are a lot of forces working in the market - technicals, earnings and geopolitics, which is the biggest wild card," said J.J. Feldman, portfolio manager at Los Angeles-based Miracle Mile Advisors.

At 12:58 p.m. ET, the Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) was up 282.95 points, or 1.16 percent, at 24,643.09, the S&P 500 (.SPX) was up 26.01 points, or 0.98 percent, at 2,682.31 and the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) was up 60.76 points, or 0.85 percent, at 7,167.41.

Merck (MRK.N) rose 2.5 percent after the company presented positive data on its cancer drug Keytruda, driving a 0.7 percent gain in the healthcare index (.SPXHC).

Technology stocks (.SPLRCT) gained 0.9 percent.

"Tech and healthcare may be two sectors trading below their 20 year PEs, meaning there is still value in those sectors," Feldman said.

Shares of optical components makers, including those of Acacia Communications (ACIA.O) and Oclaro (OCLR.O), took a beating after Reuters reported that the U.S. government was banning American companies from selling components to Chinese telecom equipment maker ZTE Corp <0000063.SZ> <0763.HK>.

JB Hunt Transport Services (JBHT.O) jumped 5.5 percent after the trucking company's profit topped estimates.

Bank of America (BAC.N) posted marginal gains after reporting a better-than-expected increase in quarterly profit.

Netflix (NFLX.O) fell more than 1 percent. The company is expected to reports results after the closing bell on Monday.

Advancing issues outnumbered decliners on the NYSE for a 2.79-to-1 ratio and on the Nasdaq, a 1.81-to-1 ratio favored advancers.





(Reporting by Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)President Donald Trump resumed his efforts to put his own stamp on the Federal Reserve, nominating one person for vice chair and another for a governor's position.

The nominees are Richard Clarida, a Columbia University economist and global strategic advisor at bond giant Pimco who was tapped for vice chair, and Michelle Bowman, Kansas bank commissioner, who the president picked for an open governor's spot.

Both appointments had been rumored for month and come as Trump is trying to fill four vacancies at the central bank. One nominee, Marvin Goodfriend, faces an uncertain future as the name has been stuck in the Senate for months.

Clarida's nominee is key in that he will be the chief deputy for new Fed Chairman Jerome Powell. The position has been vacant since Stanley Fischer left in October.

The nomination could come at a critical time as the Fed is in the midst of normalizing policy after the extreme measures taken in the wake of the financial crisis. The Federal Open Market Committee, of which both nominees would be voting members, approved a quarter-point rate hike in March.

This story is developing. Please check back for updates.





More From CNBC

Amazon has shelved plans to sell and distribute pharmaceutical products through Amazon Business, its marketplace for business customers.

The biggest challenges include complexities around selling in bulk to large hospitals and building a logistics network to handle pharma delivery.

Amazon could still get into the pharma space in another way, as it still has multiple teams working on health care, including Alexa and the secretive Grand Challenge team, sometimes referred to as "1492."

Amazon Business, which sells bulk items to business customers, has shelved its plan to sell and distribute pharmaceutical products after considering it last year, according to people familiar with the matter.

Instead, the company is focused on selling less sensitive medical supplies to hospitals and smaller clinics through Amazon Business — and it has found that business to be more challenging than expected.

The setback illustrates the challenges of getting into the medical supply and pharmaceutical space, even for a company as big as Amazon AMZN . Several healthcare and pharmaceutical distribution companies saw their stock take a nose dive following recent reports of Amazon potentially getting into the space, but it will likely take some time before those concerns turn into real threats.

The change in plan comes partly because Amazon has not been able to convince big hospitals to change their traditional purchasing process, which typically involves a number of middlemen and loyal relationships.

Moreover, Amazon would also need to build a more sophisticated logistics network that can handle temperature-sensitive pharmaceutical products, according to these people.

Still, Amazon hasn't completely ruled out getting into the pharma distribution space eventually. Multiple reports have speculated that the company will someday add a direct-to-consumer prescription drug business. Amazon Business could also re-consider getting into the pharma space once it gains more scale, multiple people said.

Meanwhile, the company continues to explore other healthcare projects through different teams across the company, including Alexa and the secretive Grand Challenge team, sometimes referred to as "1492."

Harder than expected

Amazon has been selling medical products like glucometers, gloves and stethoscopes into medical clinics for several years. It now has the necessary licensing in 47 out of 50 states and the District of Columbia, according to its website .

But Amazon has struggled to land contracts with large hospital networks, despite convening an advisory board that includes major hospital executives, according to two people familiar. These groups of hospitals have longstanding contracts with distributors, like Cardinal Health CAH and McKesson. MCK Many hospitals also own a stake in entities called group purchasing organizations that negotiate on their behalf, leveraging their collective negotiating power.

In addition, Amazon isn't yet selling products considered high-risk, known as "Class III" devices. For instance, it's not selling anything that needs to be implanted into the human body and sustains life, like a pacemaker. Some large hospitals have been reluctant to move over to Amazon in part because it lacks these products.

An Amazon spokesperson told CNBC, "As we've developed Amazon Business, we've used our working-backwards methodology for consumers and applied it to the needs of business customers and sellers. One of the ways we do this is convening advisory boards from across the industry to give us feedback so we can continue innovating on behalf of customers."

The health care supply chain is well-entrenched and will be hard to break into, according to one expert. "The hospital and health care systems have entangling alliances with their existing purchasing and supply chain partners," said Tom Cassels, head of strategy and business development at Leidos Health. "It's very difficult to replicate the Amazon buying experience in healthcare," he said.

For now, the sweet spot for Amazon Business in health care is smaller practices, such as dental offices, freestanding ambulatory surgery centers and small physician practices, where the licensed providers appreciate the convenience and affordability.

Even then, several of the physicians interviewed by CNBC said they were sticking with their existing distributor for most supplies, but relying on Amazon for some items, or in emergencies.

Amazon told CNBC that it serves health practices of all sizes: "Amazon Business serves healthcare customers of all sizes, from large IDNs [integrated delivery networks, meaning systems that provide both medical services and a health insurance plan to patients] to small- and medium-sized community hospitals. We also serve customers from physician and dental offices to senior living and long-term care facilities."

Story ContinuesThe future of the media industry is on the line as U.S. District Judge Richard Leon decides if AT&T should be able to acquire Time Warner.If I Retire at 62 This Year, How Much Will I Collect in Social Security?If I Retire at 62 This Year, How Much Will I Collect in Social Security?Kinder Morgan Inc KMI is expected to post first-quarter 2018 results on Apr 18.



Last quarter, the company delivered an earnings surprise of 16.7%. Moreover, Kinder Morgan delivered an average positive earnings surprise of 4.6% in the last four quarters. Let’s see how things are shaping up prior to the announcement.



Which Way are Estimates Treading?



Let’s look at the estimate revisions to get a clear picture of what analysts are thinking about the company before earnings release.



The Zacks Consensus Estimate of 21 cents for the first quarter has been stable in the last 30 days. It reflects improvement of about 23.5% from the year-ago quarter.



Further, analysts polled by Zacks expect revenues of $3,482 million for the impending quarter, showing an increase of 1.7% from the prior-year quarter.



Factors to Consider



Kinder Morgan has the largest network of natural gas pipelines in North America, spread over almost 70,000 miles. Notably, the company’s midstream properties are linked to all the prospective plays in the United States, rich in natural gas.



These extensive networks of natural gas pipelines, for which the company has invested billions of dollars, provide stable fee-based revenues. In fact, Kinder Morgan expects 85% of its cash flow generation to come from fees charged for midstream properties over the coming quarters. The revenues from midstream properties will be reflected in the quarterly results.



However, Kinder Morgan’s weak balance sheet is a concern. As of fourth-quarter 2017, total debt — short and long term — is pegged at $34 billion. Debt capitalization ratio of 49.9% is higher than the industry’s ratio of 48.2%, which depicts the company’s significant exposure to debt. The company may face liquidity issues, if its debt continues to increase.



Moreover, the company’s Trans Mountain pipeline is plagued by uncertainties. The company has deferred bulk of work on its $5.8 billion Trans Mountain pipeline expansion and is likely to abandon the project if Canada’s provincial and federal governments cannot reach an agreement by May 31. After this announcement, Alberta offered financial assistance. However, nothing is certain. If the pipeline is not constructed, this will be a major drawback for the company and it will adversely impact earnings in the first-quarter.



Price Performance in Q1



During the quarter, Kinder Morgan has underperformed the industry. In the aforesaid period, the stock has lost 16.6% compared with the industry’s decline of 14.9%.







Earnings Whispers



Our proven model does not conclusively show that Kinder Morgan will beat earnings this quarter. That is because a stock needs to have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold) for this to happen. That is not the case here as you will see below.



Zacks ESP: Earnings ESP for the company is 0.00%. You can uncover the best stocks to buy or sell before they’re reported with our Earnings ESP Filter.



Zacks Rank: Kinder Morgan carries a Zacks Rank #3.



Please note that we caution investors against stocks with a Zacks Rank #4 or 5 (Sell Rated) going into the earnings announcement, especially when the company is seeing negative estimate revisions.



Stocks to Consider



Though earnings beat looks uncertain for Kinder Morgan, here are some firms that you may want to consider on the basis of our model. These have the right combination of elements to post an earnings beat this quarter:



Continental Resources, Inc CLR is an independent oil and natural gas exploration and production company. The company has an Earnings ESP of +7.50% and sports a Zacks Rank #1. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank stocks here.



Headquartered in Irving, TX, Pioneer Natural Resources Company PXD is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. The company has an Earnings ESP of +4.75% and carries a Zacks Rank #3.



Houston, TX-based EOG Resources, Inc EOG is a major independent oil and gas exploration and production company. The company has an Earnings ESP of +14.04% and a Zacks Rank #3.



Investor Alert: Breakthroughs Pending



A medical advance is now at the flashpoint between theory and realization. Billions of dollars in research have poured into it. Companies are already generating substantial revenue, and even more wondrous products are in the pipeline.



Cures for a variety of deadly diseases are in sight, and so are big potential profits for early investors. Zacks names 5 stocks to buy now.



Click here to see them >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Pioneer Natural Resources Company (PXD) : Free Stock Analysis Report



EOG Resources, Inc. (EOG) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Continental Resources, Inc. (CLR) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.On Friday, JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) reported earnings. The banking giant beat on earnings per share and revenue expectations. So did Citigroup Inc (NYSE:C) and Wells Fargo & Co (NYSE:WFC). But guess what? C, WFC and JPM stock all fell on Friday.

JPMorgan is earnings billions of dollars per quarter and interest rates are rising, which adds to its bottom-line results. The economy is doing well and increasing but manageable volatility in the stock and bond markets is a boon for its trading desk revenues. Many would think that’s enough to bid JPM stock higher. So why on earth did JPM stock fall?

Bond Inversion

There is a developing concern in the bond market. Specifically, the gap between long-dated Treasury yields and short-dated Treasury yields is shrinking quite quickly, making many nervous that a recession could be on the horizon. While odds of a recession are still low, the worry is very real.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

While the Federal Reserve increasing interest rates does pad the bottom line for banks, it also ratchets up the yield on short-term bonds. However, for the most part this yield bump is not passed along to long-dated Treasuries.

Last week, the 5-year Treasury yield came within 37 basis points of the 30-year, its lowest gap since the financial recession. When short-term notes invert, meaning they yield more than long-term notes, that’s quite bad. That’s when we have trouble on our hands and that could be one reason investors were selling JPM stock rather than buying it — despite great earnings.

Valuing JPM Stock

With all that said, odds of a recession are still relatively low, particularly in 2018. As CEO Jamie Dimon said, “2018 is off to a good start with our businesses performing well across the board, driving strong top-line growth and building on the momentum from last year.”

The bank’s expense ratio fell while sales grew 10.3% year-over-year and net income soared 35%. These are great results, but what can we expect going forward? Analysts estimate revenue will grow 5.2% this year and another 4.7% next year. That’s good, but not necessarily great.

So what about earnings? On this front, it’s much better. Estimates call for almost 28% growth in 2018 and another 10% growth in 2019. Should 2019 not falter into a recession, JPM stock should continue climbing, as too could analysts’ estimates.

While JPMorgan stock pays out a 2% dividend yield and buys back plenty of stock, I would expect its dividend and buyback program to receive a boost later this year following the Fed’s stress test results. Additionally, tax reform and looser regulations should help the banks rake in even more cash, which should help in its test results and capital return potential.

Despite the growth, the yield and everything else going on with JPMorgan stock, shares trade at just 12.2 times 2018 earnings estimates. JPM stock trades at about 11 times forward earnings estimates, which again, is quite low given its growth. With earnings growth outpacing revenue growth, investors can expect improving margins, return on equity and other operational improvements.

Trading JPM Stock

So what do the charts look like? After breaking down in early February, JPM stock was right back to $116. I thought for sure that we were going to get a solid breakout here. I also thought Bank of America Corp (NYSE:BAC) was set to break out.

JPMorgan stock broke out over the $116 level — twice — but ultimately failed both times. Eventually support came into play around $106. Shares originally opened higher on Friday following JPMorgan’s earnings, but fell about 3% down to $110. Still above last week’s lows, the hope is that JPM can retest and break through $116.

chart of JPM stock price More



Click to Enlarge



With BAC, Goldman Sachs Group Inc (NYSE:GS) Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) and other banks reporting next week, perhaps they can give JPM a boost. I, for one, think the stock should be higher, not lower on the results, but I am not the market; we have to trade what’s given to us. Below $106 and short-term, risk-averse investors have to consider parting ways with JPMorgan stock. But note that the 200-day is close by and could be support as well.

With this growth and valuation though, I admit it’s hard to be a seller at lower prices.

Bret Kenwell is the manager and author of Future Blue Chips and is on Twitter @BretKenwell. As of this writing, Bret Kenwell held a long position in JPM stock.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post JPMorgan Chase & Co. Should Be Up on Earnings, Not Down appeared first on InvestorPlace.M&T Bank Corporation MTB reported net operating earnings of $2.26 per share in first-quarter 2018. The bottom line improved 5.1% year over year.



In addition, top-line growth was recorded. Moreover, improved credit quality was a positive factor. Further, pressure on margin eased. However, decrease in loan and deposit balances was a headwind. Also, results were affected by higher expenses.



Net operating income came in at $357 million, up around 1% year over year.



On a GAAP basis, M&T Bank’s earnings per share of $2.23 jumped 5% year over year. Net income inched up 1% year over year to $353 million. Notably, litigation reserve has been increased by $135 million. On an after-tax basis, reserve reduced net income by $102 million, or 68 cents per share.



NII & Fee Income Growth Boost Revenues, Expenses Flare Up



M&T Bank’s revenues came in at $1.44 billion comparing favorably with the year-ago figure of $1.37 billion.



Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased 6% year over year to $980 million in the quarter, driven by increased net interest margin, partly offset by lower average earning assets. Furthermore, net interest margin expanded 37 basis points year over year to 3.71%.



Supported by strong growth in trust income and distribution from Bayview Lending Group LLC, the company’s other income climbed 3% year over year to $459 million. These increases were partially offset by unrealized losses on investments in equity securities.



Non-interest expenses were $933 million, up 18% from the prior-year quarter. Excluding certain non-operating items, non-interest operating expenses came in at $927 million, escalating 19% from the year-ago quarter. The rise reflected increased litigation reserve, elevated salaries, and employee-benefit costs and other expenses.



Efficiency ratio came in at 64% this quarter, up from 56.9% in the prior-year quarter. Rise in ratio indicates fall in profitability.



Loans and leases, net of unearned discount, edged down 1.8% year over year to $87.7 billion at the end of the reported quarter. Additionally, total deposits declined 6.3% year over year to $90.9 billion.



M&T Bank's net operating income highlighted an annualized rate of return on average tangible assets and average tangible common shareholder equity of 1.28% and 13.51%, respectively, compared with 1.21% and 13.05% recorded in the prior-year quarter.



Credit Quality Improved



M&T Bank reflected an improved credit quality picture in the reported quarter. Provision for credit losses shrunk 22% year over year to $43 million. Net charge-offs of loans came in at $41 million, down 5% year over year.



Further, the ratio of non-accrual loans to total net loans was 0.99%, down from 1.04% in the comparable period last year. Non-performing assets decreased 8% year over year to $966 million.



Strong Capital Position



M&T Bank’s estimated Common Equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets under regulatory capital rules was around 10.59%. Tangible equity per share came in at $66.99, slightly down year over year from $67.16.



Share Repurchase



During first-quarter 2018, M&T Bank repurchased a total of 3.78 million shares of its common stock for a total cost of $721 million.



Our Viewpoint



M&T Bank’s results display an impressive performance in the quarter. We believe the company, with its sturdy business model and strategic acquisitions, is well poised for growth. The Hudson City acquisition has, in all probability, provided an upside to M&T Bank’s top line by leveraging on the retail network of the former, as well as product and balance-sheet diversification.



However, regulatory issues and escalating costs remain headwinds for the bank.



M&T Bank Corporation Price, Consensus and EPS SurpriseMarkets Insider





Oil prices fall on Monday as Western leaders hint at no more action in Syria.

Fears that intervention from the West could disrupt supply pushed up oil prices last week.

Follow the live price of oil.



LONDON — The price of oil fell sharply on Monday as traders started to see a decreased likelihood of further escalation between Western powers and Syria, following Friday night's air strikes on the conflict-stricken nation.

Both major oil benchmarks have fallen on Monday morning. Brent oil — the international benchmark — is down 1.36% to trade at $71.63, while the more US-focused WTI oil is 1.23% lower at $66.56, as of around 1.10 p.m. BST (8.10 a.m. ET).

A coalition of the USA, UK, and France led targeted strikes on bases in Syria on Friday evening. Some commentators expected more strikes may have been planned.

However, on Sunday, British foreign secretary Boris Johnson told the media that the UK has no current plans for more strikes, while President Trump tweeted over the weekend "Mission Accomplished!"

A lack of further action is a negative for oil prices. Traders reason that action in the region would disrupt oil production, creating a supply shortage, and pushing up prices. The lack of action removes this potential supply squeeze, driving up prices.

Oil last week hit levels not seen since late 2014, with Brent hitting a high of close to $73 per barrel as the tensions in the Middle East simmered.

Jasper Lawler, the head of research at London Capital Group, believes there is a distinct possibility that tensions could escalate again, supporting the recent price rises in oil.

"Crude oil is already seeing some profit taking as the markets open, however with geopolitical tensions in the Middle East strained, the price of crude is expected to remain supported at these elevated levels," Lawler wrote in an email on Monday morning.

"Any slight escalation in tensions could impact on global oil supplies which are looking particularly vulnerable. Furthermore, given Iran is a major backer of Syria the re-imposing of Iran sanctions remains a very real possibility."

Oils fall is also being driven by signs that output of oil in the USA is set to rise.

"Another source of pressure came from U.S. energy companies; seven oil rigs were added in the week to 13 April, bringing the total count to 815, a level last seen in March 2015," Hussein Sayed, chief market strategist at FXTM said in an email.

NOW WATCH: Wall Street is divided over whether stocks can storm back from their latest meltdown

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson refuses to rule out further UK intervention in Syria — as Western powers consider 'options'U.S. West Texas Intermediate and international-benchmark Brent crude oil futures are trading lower early in the session on Monday after an attempt to breakout to the upside fizzled, encouraging investors to book profits.

At 0045 GMT, June WTI Crude Oil futures are trading $66.85, down $0.48 or -0.73% and June Brent Crude Oil is at $71.98, down $0.60 or -0.83%.

Daily June West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil More

After driving prices to their highest closes for the week on Friday, the market were on edge all week-end after the U.S., U.K. and France attacked Syria, targeting military positions and research weapons linked to chemical weapons.

Russia, Iran and Lebanon’s Hezbollah group condemned the action while rallying around the Syrian Assad regime. Also of note, they did not threaten retaliation. In the meantime, Saudi Arabia said it would take part in the U.S. coalition if asked. Additionally, the U.S. said it remained “locked and loaded” if there were further chemical attacks on civilians or a retaliation.

Daily June Brent Crude More

Forecast

Despite the early setback on Monday, the crude oil market remain on edge and at heightened volatility levels because of the fiery rhetoric being spewed by Russian President Vladimir Putin who warned on Sunday that further Western attacks on Syria would bring chaos to world affairs, as Washington prepared to increase pressure on Russia with new economic sanctions.

In a telephone conversation with his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani, Putin and Rouhani agreed that the Western strikes had damaged the chances of achieving a political resolution in the seven-year Syria conflict, according to a Kremlin statement.

“Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations,” the Kremlin statement said.

Profit-taking and the fact that there have been no disruptions to the crude oil supply after the week-end attack are two reasons for Monday’s weakness.

Additionally, traders are not forgetting that U.S. crude production reached a fresh weekly record of 10.53 million barrels per day, which led to the increase of U.S. crude stocks by 3.3 million barrels in the week to April 6. Furthermore, the U.S. rig count rose by seven to reach 815 in the week-ending April 13, the highest since March 2015, according to Baker Hughes data.In 2018 there is a tech stock that is hotter than Nvidia Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA). That stock is NetApp Inc. (NASDAQ:NTAP). NetApp stock very well could be the Nvidia of the future.

Our Luke Lango says the move isn’t over, and that NetApp could soon be trading at $75 or more. It opened on April 13 at about $69 per share.

NetApp is a data storage company. It makes a set of devices, filled with memory chips, that aim to move data from dry storage to processing quickly. It also produces data management software, a program called OnTap that lets companies manage this fast memory.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Before you hit that buy button, however, it might help to know why NetApp stock is suddenly so hot.

The magic term is hybrid cloud. After nearly a decade talking about it, big companies are finally moving their “crown jewels,” their key corporate data, to cloud technology.

My Data, My Cloud

“Put all your eggs in one basket and watch that basket.” Mark Twain used the line in Pudd’nhead Wilson, but it was originally said by Andrew Carnegie, in a talk to business students in Pittsburgh.

For most of this decade, the key basket for large enterprises remained client-server systems in their corporate data centers. Cloud, they felt, was for non-essential data and customer-facing systems. But now these companies have finally decided to switch key data to cloud standards, making it more useful to management.

NetApp is a key to that transition. Its memory devices sit at the front end of a corporate data center, or a corporate cloud. Its software is used to manage that memory and bring the data forward for use.

Until recently NetApp was a slow-growth, even a no-growth company. Revenue for fiscal 2017 was 10% short of where it was in fiscal 2015.

But recently business has picked up. Revenue was $1.325 billion for the quarter ending last July, $1.422 for the quarter ending in October, and $1.523 billion for the quarter ending in in January. For the quarter ending in April, it’s due to come in at $1.6 billion. Watch it beat that number.

At its analyst day on April 5 the company predicted it could sustain 15% annual growth for the next three years, even doubling its dividend to achieve a yield of 3%.

Since then NetApp stock has been off to the races, up 18% in a little more than one week. Analysts talk about it “dominating the market.”

For How Long?

There is a key to the future in that analyst day presentation, a troubling one.

Rather than seeing its new profitability as a reason to invest, management sees this as a reason to cash out. It plans to buy back stock as well as increase the dividend, and to have a “disciplined approach” to acquisitions, meaning don’t expect big deals.

The fact is that while hybrid cloud is an important transition, it’s a one-time thing, and not nearly as big a deal as analysts thought it would be early in the decade. It’s the back end of the cloud transition, the hard work that (companies hope) need only be done once.

This is not, in the end, like Nvidia, whose graphics chips are building new markets like artificial intelligence. This is a corporate transition that, once complete, will require only maintenance.

The Bottom Line on NetApp Stock

NetApp management is being wise here, and honest.

The cloud revolution has already pushed most corporate data into the new cloud architecture. Hybrid cloud is a key piece, but it’s a relatively small piece, a matter of catching up with a revolution that has already happened.

The NetApp boom, in other words, has a sell-by date. If you buy now, know that you’re going to sell later.

Dana Blankenhorn is a financial and technology journalist. He is the author of the historical mystery romance The Reluctant Detective Travels in Time, available now at the Amazon Kindle store. Write him at danablankenhorn@gmail.com or follow him on Twitter at @danablankenhorn. As of this writing he owned no shares in companies mentioned in this story.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post NetApp Inc. Stock Is a Great Trade If You Can Get out in Time appeared first on InvestorPlace.Last week, we saw Facebook, Inc. (NASDAQ:FB) founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg testify in front of the U.S. Congress. While Zuck seemed to take the matter pretty seriously, it felt like a farce from Congress. Some asked important and probing questions, but most just used the opportunity to hit the punching bag a few times. Ultimately FB stock rallied during the two-day testimony.

So with Mark Zuckerberg finished on Capitol Hill — for now — where does that leave Facebook stock? FB stock was up almost 5% for the week, as investors are breathing a big sigh of relief now that the CEO’s testimony is done.

Obviously the user-data issue isn’t good, but let’s face the facts: Aside from a few days of Congressional grilling, there’s unlikely to be any big-time regulations handed down to social media players. Talk of increasing regulations may temporarily hit the group — Twitter Inc (NYSE:TWTR) and Snap Inc (NYSE:SNAP) included — but ultimately, business will go on.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Evaluating FB Stock

Well, it will go on … right? It will indeed. Talk to almost any advertiser and the Facebook platforms are the go-to names when it comes to reaching their customers. For that reason, revenue will continue to boost the top line and trickle down to the bottom line. Will Facebook ever charge its users? Almost with 100% certainty I would say no. It would instantly reverse its user growth and crush current usage numbers. However, I can say with 100% certainty that advertisers will continue to pay.

Analysts expect sales to grow 36% this year and another 27% next year, an impressive feat for a $480 billion market cap company. On the earnings front, estimates call for 35% growth this year and 21% growth next year.

Make no mistake: Facebook will likely be more selective with advertisements (especially with this year’s midterm elections) and it will pour resources into improving its user experience. That could cost it in both revenue and earnings in the short term, but should be a benefit in the long term. Remember, it’s still the premiere platform for advertising.

If it’s going to feel a pushback from users and advertisers, it’s going to come in this quarter. When the company reports earnings on April 25, we’ll get a look at just how much of an impact there was. If it was minimal, look for FB stock to rally. If we get a big selloff though, it may be worth watching for a buy.

What About FANG?

We can’t forget about FANG — Facebook, Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN), Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) and Alphabet Inc (NASDAQ:GOOGL, NASDAQ:GOOG). If this group is on the way up, it very well could “put a bid” under FB stock price.

If President Trump stops tweeting about Amazon for a little while, we could see a big breakout in the name. On Twitter, I also highlighted potential breakouts in GOOGL and in NFLX.

All that leaves then is FB. With Mark Zuckerberg finished with his testimony and the stock already hit, what reasons are left to sell the stock? I’m not saying a drop back down to $150 can’t happen. Only that if FANG plays ball, it should help FB stock rally.

While a rally could easily occur, it should be noted that with what’s going on at Facebook, it’s hard to imagine the stock finding its way back to new highs anytime soon.

What To Do With FB Stock

That brings us to FB stock. Earlier this month we said we’re buyers of Facebook stock. This was when shares were trading at $153. We noted that, “I wouldn’t go all-in on Facebook stock yet. But nibbling a starter position now for a longer-term investment is a bet that FB is still relevant in 6 months, 12 months and 24 months.”

chart of FB stock More



Click to Enlarge



I think that stands true — and the thing is, FB stock is cheap! Shares trade at just 22.5 times this year’s earnings estimates and a paltry 18.6 times next year’s earnings. Not only is it cheaper than SNAP and TWTR, but it’s cheaper than all of FANG and even many blue-chip, dividend titans, considering Facebook’s growth.

While its financial results could come under pressure, consider that FB hasn’t missed an earnings estimate in four years and has missed a revenue estimate just once in that span.

Bret Kenwell is the manager and author of Future Blue Chips and is on Twitter @BretKenwell. As of this writing, Bret Kenwell held a position in GOOGL.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Is Facebook, Inc. a Screaming Buy After Zuckerberg Grilling? appeared first on InvestorPlace.In all the company has spent about $20m on security and private planes for Zuckerberg since 2015. The security funds were required ‘due to specific threats to his safety’

Mark Zuckerberg testifying before a House energy and commerce hearing on Capitol Hill on 11 April. Photograph: Andrew Harnik/AP More

Facebook increased its spending on security for Mark Zuckerberg by 50% last year, the company has disclosed, paying more than $7.3m (£5.1m) to protect its top executive.

The security funds were required “due to specific threats to his safety arising directly as a result of his position as our founder, chairman, and CEO”, the under-fire social media company said in a new filing to US regulators.

Facebook also said it spent more than $1.5m (£1m) on Zuckerberg’s travel aboard private jets in 2017, meaning that in all the company has spent about $20m on security and private planes for Zuckerberg since 2015.

Security measures at Zuckerberg’s home in California are paid for by the company, according to the filing, as well as bodyguards who accompany the 33-year-old on his travels outside Facebook’s headquarters.

“We require these security measures for the company’s benefit because of the importance of Mr Zuckerberg to Facebook, and we believe that the costs of this overall security program are appropriate and necessary,” the company said.

Zuckerberg has come under sharp criticism for his company’s role in the spread of disinformation and political propaganda online. Last week he faced 10 hours of questions from US congressional committees but escaped largely unscathed.

The hearings were prompted by the disclosure by the Observer that tens of millions of Facebook users had their data harvested by a researcher working with Cambridge Analytica, a political consultancy hired by Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign.

The filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) said that Zuckerberg continued to take a token $1 (70p) annual salary for his work at Facebook, which he founded as a student at Harvard University.

Zuckerberg’s fortune, which fluctuates with Facebook’s stock price, has recently totalled about $70bn (£49bn). He consistently appears in lists of the world’s top 10 richest people.

About $2.7m (£1.9m) was spent in 2017 on security for Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, according to the company. That total was only slightly higher than Sandberg’s security bill in 2016.

Sandberg, who has assisted Zuckerberg on an apology tour since news broke of the exploitation of users’ data, received a total pay package last year of more than $22.5m (£15.8m) in salary, bonuses and company stock.

Facebook said in the filing that the spending totals cited for Zuckerberg’s use of private planes “include passenger fees, fuel, crew, and catering costs”.

Zuckerberg raised alarms last week by stating during the congressional hearings that Facebook collects “data of people who have not signed up for Facebook”, apparently for security reasons.

No further information was offered on this disclosure, prompting calls from privacy campaigners for Facebook to explain how it gathers data on non-users and what information is retained by the company.

Zuckerberg also warned last week of an online propaganda “arms race” with Russia and said that fighting interference in elections around the world was now his top priority as Facebook’s boss.

Earlier this month the company said it had discovered and removed 273 accounts and pages that were being run on its platforms by the so-called Internet Research Agency (IRA), a notorious Russian government “troll farm”.

“The IRA has repeatedly used complex networks of inauthentic accounts to deceive and manipulate people who use Facebook, including before, during and after the 2016 US presidential elections,” Alex Stamos, Facebook’s chief security officer, said in a blogpost announcing the action.

Prosecutors working for Robert Mueller, the special counsel, have charged Russian operatives with using social media platforms including Facebook to pose as American activists and sow political discord during the 2016 campaign.Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive officer and founder of Facebook Inc., waits to begin a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, April 11, 2018. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg

Victims of terrorist attacks who sued Facebook Inc. for incendiary postings say Mark Zuckerberg’s Congressional testimony last week should allow them to have another day in court.

The plaintiffs representing more than 20,000 victims and their families accused the social-media company of helping terrorist groups in the Middle East, such as Hamas. U.S. District Court Judge Nicholas Garaufis in Brooklyn, New York, dismissed the suits in May citing a U.S. law insulates publishers.

They have appealed, but the court put its review on hold pending the outcome of a Supreme Court case regarding Microsoft Corp. The plaintiffs asked the court on Monday to send their suits back to court in light of Zuckerberg’s testimony.

More from Bloomberg.com: Warship Ruse and New Stealth Missiles: How the U.S. and Allies Attacked Syria

"It’s startling that Mark Zuckerberg’s testimony so blatantly contradicts the positions that Facebook’s attorneys have been arguing in court," said Nitsana Darshan-Leitner, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said in a statement. "The social media giant has long been deeply involved in editing and manipulating the content on its platform, and has had the technology to block the incitement of terrorism as the plaintiffs in our cases contend."

Facebook’s founder told Congress that the company "is responsible for the content" on its site and uses algorithms to remove terrorist and other incendiary content. The company expects to increase its staff of professional censors to 20,000 by the end of this year, he said.

More from Bloomberg.com: How 105 Missiles Show Assad’s Future Is Safe

Representatives of Facebook didn’t immediately respond to an email seeking comment.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Facebook Terror Accusers Say Zuckerberg Testimony Bolsters Suits on bloombergpolitics.comTEL AVIV (Reuters) - Oracle Corp co-CEO Safra Catz said on Monday she expects an acceleration in the company's cloud business after the software maker last month reported sales from its cloud business that fell short of Wall Street expectations.

Catz told reporters in Tel Aviv that the company's cloud business was impacted by a new model made available to customers three quarters ago that resulted in much higher than projected license growth.

"That makes the appearance of a lower number (for the cloud business) even though money is actually coming in to another bucket," Catz said.

"As this evens out I think we are going to start seeing cloud acceleration again that is very significant but I don't want to time that right now."

Oracle last month said its quarterly cloud business revenue rose 31.7 percent to $1.57 billion, but fell short of the average analysts’ estimate of $1.59 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.





(Reporting by Tova Cohen; Editing by Steven Scheer)AT&T failed on one megadeal and overpaid on the second. Time Warner could be its third strikeREUTERS/Bobby Yip





Bank of America Merrill Lynch just announced first-quarter earnings results, beating analyst estimates with earnings per share of $0.62. Analysts had been expecting the bank to report adjusted earnings per share of $0.59.

The beat was driven by higher interest rates and lower taxes, while the bank's equities trading unit had a record quarter, echoing a similar performance in that unit at JPMorgan and Citigroup.

Here are the key numbers:

Revenue: $23.1 billion, marginally ahead of analyst expectations of $23 billion. Net interest income increased by $550 million, driven by higher rates.

$23.1 billion, marginally ahead of analyst expectations of $23 billion. Net interest income increased by $550 million, driven by higher rates. Adjusted net income: $6.9 billion, a record high, and well ahead of analyst expectations.

$6.9 billion, a record high, and well ahead of analyst expectations. Consumer banking: Net income increased to $2.7 billion, up 42%, driven by higher interest rates.

Net income increased to $2.7 billion, up 42%, driven by higher interest rates. Global wealth management: Net income increased 34% to $1 billion, again driven by higher rates.

Net income increased 34% to $1 billion, again driven by higher rates. Global banking: Net income increased 17% to $2 billion, despite a slight decline in revenues, thanks to a lower tax bill.

Net income increased 17% to $2 billion, despite a slight decline in revenues, thanks to a lower tax bill. Global markets: Net income increased 12% to $1.5 billion. Sales and trading revenues were up 6% to $4.1 billion, driven by a huge gain in equities, where revenues increased 38% to a record $1.5 billion. That performance echoes similar gains in the equities businesses at JPMorgan and Citigroup.

Net income increased 12% to $1.5 billion. Sales and trading revenues were up 6% to $4.1 billion, driven by a huge gain in equities, where revenues increased 38% to a record $1.5 billion. That performance echoes similar gains in the equities businesses at JPMorgan and Citigroup. Deposits: Average deposit balances increased to $1.3 trillion, a record high.

"Strong client activity, coupled with a growing global economy and solid U.S. consumer activity, led to record quarterly earnings," CEO Brian Moynihan said in a statement. "We grew loans in our business segments by $45 billion and increased deposits by $41 billion."

JPMorgan and Citigroup announced first-quarter earnings on Friday, with both beating solidly. The two banks also posted gains in markets revenue, with JPMorgan's markets revenue up 7% on an underlying basis and Citigroup's total markets and securities revenue up 3%.

Those gains were driven by equities revenue, with JPMorgan posting record equities revenue of $2 billion and Citigroup posting a 38% gain in equities revenue to $1.1 billion. Fixed income revenues, in contrast, were flat at JPMorgan, and down at Citigroup.

NOW WATCH: A $700 billion investor dispels one of the market's most common myths — and explains what it means for your portfolio

See Also:Earnings season is now underway and, as per usual, the big U.S. banks are among the first companies to report their first-quarter results. Bank of America (NYSE: BAC), which has been one of the most impressive turnaround stories of the post-financial crisis era, just reported another solid all-around quarter.

Here's a breakdown of some of the highlights in the report, including the headline numbers, some particularly impressive areas of growth and profitability, as well as where there's still room for improvement.

Interior of a Bank of America lobby. More

Image Source: Bank of America.

1. Headline numbers beat expectations

While it's not the best indication of how well a bank (or any company, for that matter) actually did in a given quarter, let's start off by pointing out that Bank of America beat analyst expectations on both the top and bottom lines. The bank's earnings of $0.62 per share and revenue of $23.1 billion both surpassed estimates of $0.59 and $23.059 billion, respectively.

However, that doesn't tell us much about how the bank's business performed or what to expect going forward. So, let's take a closer look at the report.

2. Strong growth all around

Most of Bank of America's business components posted strong growth during the quarter. Just to name some of the key figures:

Loan balances grew 5% from the first quarter of 2017.

Average deposit balances increased by 3%, including 8% growth in consumer loans.

Merrill Edge brokerage assets jumped by an impressive 18% and saw record inflows.

Total wealth management assets went up to $2.7 trillion, and the bank saw significant shifts from client cash balances into investments over the past year.

3. Finally hitting the key benchmarks

In the banking industry, the benchmarks for key profitability metrics return on equity (ROE) and return on assets (ROA) are 10% and 1%, respectively. And Bank of America hasn't achieved those for a long time.

Until now, that is. Bank of America's first-quarter ROE of 10.8% and ROA of 1.21% handily exceeded these benchmarks.

To be fair, while this was partially due to growth and the bank's ongoing efforts to reduce expenses, tax reform gave the bank a big boost, as I'll discuss later on.

4. Efficiency keeps improving

Speaking of the bank's efforts to reduce expenses, the first-quarter results reflect the improved efficiency. In fact, Bank of America's efficiency ratio has now fallen to 60% from 63% a year ago (lower is better).

Here's why. Although Bank of America's loan portfolio and deposit base grew significantly, the bank's noninterest expenses actually dropped by 1% from a year ago.

5. Help from tax reform

Bank of America said that thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, it expects an ongoing reduction of 9 percentage points in its effective tax rate, providing more concrete information about the expected impact than it did last quarter.

To give you an idea of how much this could help the bank's bottom line, consider that Bank of America's pre-tax income for the first quarter was about $8.4 billion. A 9-percentage-point reduction in the effective tax rate translates into $756 million in additional net income -- or more than $3 billion on an annualized basis.

6. Continued growth in mobile and online services

I mentioned earlier that Bank of America has done an excellent job of expense management. One big reason for this is the bank's emphasis on technology and mobile banking, which can dramatically improve efficiency.

For example, 24% of Bank of America's check deposits now take place through its mobile app, up from 16% just two years ago. A mobile deposit costs the bank a tiny fraction of what a teller-assisted deposit costs, so this can add up to major savings.During the past few months, Cisco Systems, Inc. (NASDAQ:CSCO) certainly has been volatile, a has much of the tech sector. Just take a look at the charts for big-names like Facebook, Inc. (NASDAQ:FB), Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) and Oracle Corporation (NYSE:ORCL). Yet Cisco stock has still been able to manage through all this fairly well.

For the year so far, the shares are up about 15% and 36% for the past 12 months.

Now it’s reasonable for investors to be skeptical about CSCO stock anyway. Let’s face it, the company has only recently been able to generate positive growth on the top-line.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

What’s more, the competitive environment continues to get tougher, especially for the core networking business. CSCO must fight against operators like Juniper Networks, Inc. (NYSE:JNPR), Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co (NYSE:HPE), Arista Networks Inc (NYSE:ANET) and Huawei.

There is even emerging competition from some of CSCO’s own customers like Alphabet Inc (NASDAQ:GOOG, NASDAQ:GOOGL) and FB!

And yes, the competition has taken a toll. Consider that the company’s share of the global ethernet switching marketing has been declining, going from 63% in 2013 to 53% in 2017.

Cisco Stock and the Company’s Reinvention

Even with the issues, I still think Cisco stock is worth considering. The fact is that the company has been engaged in a major transformation involving major changes in the technology and the business model.

For example, Cisco has been aggressively moving to a SaaS approach, which involves charging ongoing subscriptions. Customers like this because it does not mean hefty upfront fees. Rather, the fees are tied to the usage. So if the technology proves to not be useful, a customer can simply cancel the subscription.

But there are key advantages for technology vendors. Subscriptions provide more stability with revenues and also allow for incentives to keep innovating the product, in order to lower the churn rate.

The SaaS approach is truly a win-win. So it is no surprise that many top tech operators use it, like salesforce.com, inc. (NYSE:CRM).

Now another critical part of the transformation that which should boost CSCO stock is the retooling of the networking technology. The focus has been to create “intuitive” systems, which allow for customization and programmability. There is also more built-in security features and the leveraging of machine learning as well as advanced analytics.

At the heart of all this is the Catalyst 9000. And yes, the traction has been considerable. During the latest quarter, this system saw the customer base more than double to 3,100. It’s actually the fastes product launch in Cisco’s history.

Bottom Line on the Cisco Stock Price

Cisco continues to crank out substantial cash flows. For the latest quarter, Cisco stock came to $4.1 billion, up 8% on a year-over-year basis. Cisco stock also sports an attractive dividend, which is currently at 3.1% (there was a 14% increase in the quarterly payout). Oh, and the company approved a whopping $25 billion buyback program.

In the meantime, there will be a nice boost from the tax reform bill. Keep in mind that the company has $67 billion in foreign accounts. In other words, there should be no trouble in continuing to raise dividends and pursuing an aggressive M&A program.

And finally, even with the runup in Cisco stock, the valuation is still reasonable, with the forward price-to-earnings ratio at 15X. All in all, there is room on the upside, especially in light of the ongoing transformation of the company and the positive secular trends.

Tom Taulli is the author of High-Profit IPO Strategies, All About Commodities and All About Short Selling. Follow him on Twitter at @ttaulli. As of this writing, he did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post The Bull Case Keeps Getting Better for Cisco Systems, Inc. Stock appeared first on InvestorPlace.FILE- In this Nov. 6, 2017, file photo, people walk by a branch office of Bank of America in New York. Bank of America Corp. reports earnings Monday, April 16, 2018. (AP Photo/Mark Lennihan, File)

NEW YORK (AP) -- Bank of America's profits rose to a record $6.9 billion last quarter thanks in part to the new tax law and higher interest rates.

The consumer banking giant earned $6.92 billion, or 62 cents per share, up from $5.34 billion, or 45 cents a share, from the same period a year ago. Analysts had been expecting a per-share profit of 59 cents, according to FactSet.

Like its competitors JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, Bank of America reported a sharp drop in its tax bill Monday, which helped boost profits. While the bank's pretax income rose by roughly $1 billion, the amount it paid in taxes fell by roughly $500 million in the quarter. The Charlotte, North Carolina, bank estimates that the tax law cut its effective tax rate by 9 percentage points.

This first-quarter earnings season will give investors and the public their first good look into how President Donald Trump's tax law is impacting corporate America. Banks are among the first to report results at the beginning of each quarter.

Higher interest rates benefited the bank as well. The Federal Reserve has steadily raised interest rates, allowing banks to charge customers more to borrow. In Bank of America's consumer banking division, its largest business by revenue and profit, net interest income rose 13 percent from a year earlier. The bank also grew loans and deposits in the quarter.

While higher interest rates should translate into better interest rates for savers, most of the benefits have gone to the banks, not account holders. Bank of America paid just an average of 0.30 percent on its interest-earning deposits last quarter, up from 0.09 percent a year earlier.

Total revenue for Bank of America in the quarter was $23.13 billion, up from $22.25 billion in the same period a year earlier.Apr.16 -- Walter Todd, chief investment officer at Greenwood Capital, and Bloomberg Intelligence's Alison Williams, discuss Bank of America earnings and lack of reaction from markets thus far. They speak with Bloomberg's Alix Steel and David Westin on "Bloomberg Daybreak: Americas."If I Retire at 62 This Year, How Much Will I Collect in Social Security?(Adds White House statement, paragraphs 10-12)

* Signs emerge of Russia and West seeking to ease tensions

* U.S. set to announce new economic sanctions -Haley

* Raids trigger heated debate over legality

* Assad in 'good mood' -lawmakers

* GRAPHIC detailing air strikes on Syria https://tmsnrt.rs/2EKgAMN

By Jack Stubbs and Laila Bassam

MOSCOW/DAMASCUS, April 15 (Reuters) - Russian President Vladimir Putin warned on Sunday that further Western attacks on Syria would bring chaos to world affairs, as Washington prepared to increase pressure on Russia with new economic sanctions.

In a telephone conversation with his Iranian counterpart, Hassan Rouhani, Putin and Rouhani agreed that the Western strikes had damaged the chances of achieving a political resolution in the seven-year Syria conflict, according to a Kremlin statement.

"Vladimir Putin, in particular, stressed that if such actions committed in violation of the U.N. Charter continue, then it will inevitably lead to chaos in international relations," the Kremlin statement said.

The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, told CBS' "Face the Nation" program that the United States would announce new economic sanctions on Monday aimed at companies "that were dealing with equipment" related to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's alleged chemical weapons use.

On Saturday, the United States, France and Britain launched 105 missiles targeting what the Pentagon said were three chemical weapons facilities in Syria in retaliation for a suspected poison gas attack in Douma on April 7.

The Western countries blame Assad for the Douma attack that killed dozens of people. The Syrian government and its ally Russia have denied involvement in any such attack.

The bombings marked the biggest intervention by Western countries against Assad and ally Russia.

French President Emmanuel Macron said on Sunday that he had convinced Trump, who previously said he wanted to take U.S. forces out of Syria, to stay for "the long term."

The United States, France and Britain have said the missile strikes were limited to Syria's chemical weapons capabilities and not aimed at toppling Assad or intervening in the civil war. Macron said in an interview broadcast by BFM TV, RMC radio and Mediapart online news that he had convinced Trump to focus on the chemical weapons sites.

The White House pushed back against Macron's comments about Trump's intentions for U.S. forces.

“The U.S. mission has not changed - the president has been clear that he wants U.S. forces to come home as quickly as possible," White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said.

"We are determined to completely crush ISIS and create the conditions that will prevent its return." she said. "In addition we expect our regional allies and partners to take greater responsibility both militarily and financially for securing the region.”

'HARD FOR US, BUT WILL DO MORE DAMAGE TO THE USA'

Responding to Haley's remarks about the plans for new sanctions, Evgeny Serebrennikov, deputy head of the defence committee of Russia's upper house of parliament, said Moscow was ready for the penalties, according to RIA news agency.

"They are hard for us, but will do more damage to the USA and Europe," RIA quoted Serebrennikov as saying.

In Damascus, Syria's deputy foreign minister, Faisal Mekdad, met inspectors from the global chemical weapons watchdog OPCW for about three hours in the presence of Russian officers and a senior Syrian security official.

The inspectors were due to attempt to visit the Douma site. Moscow condemned the Western states for refusing to wait for the OPCW's findings before attacking.

Mekdad declined to comment to reporters waiting outside the hotel where the meeting took place.

Assad told a group of visiting Russian lawmakers that the Western missile strikes were an act of aggression, Russian news agencies reported.

Russian agencies quoted the lawmakers as saying that Assad was in a "good mood", had praised the Soviet-era air defence systems Syria used to repel the Western attacks and had accepted an invitation to visit Russia at an unspecified time.

Trump had said: "Mission accomplished" on Twitter after the strikes, although U.S. Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie at the Pentagon acknowledged elements of the program remained and he could not guarantee that Syria would be unable to conduct a chemical attack in the future.

Story ContinuesThis article originally appeared on Council on Foreign Relations.

As the Trump administration deliberates military action to respond to apparent nerve gas attacks in Syria, debate is surging over the merits of punitive strikes. Mona Yacoubian, a senior advisor at the U.S. Institute of Peace, warns that Syria’s Bashar al-Assad is unlikely to be deterred from future attacks by anything less than force that rattles his regime. But a response that’s too aggressive, she says, could provoke escalation between the United States and Russia. Given the stakes, it is essential for Washington to spell out its strategy for Syria and reinforce the military’s role in vanquishing the self-proclaimed Islamic State, says Yacoubian, a contributor to a U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum study on the Obama administration’s decision-making on Syria.

With President Trump signaling military action, what options are likely on the table?

Trending: Mother's Murder Livestreamed on Facebook, Ex-Boyfriend Arrested

More likely than not, these attacks will be long-distance missile attacks, either from ships or possibly from airplanes not in Syrian airspace. It’s both building some sort of coalition, and also refining target lists, that has taken up time. The questions will be: Who undertakes the attacks? Is it the U.S. by itself, or with allies? There’s been a lot of talk about the French and the British taking part, and there’s also mention of Arab allies.

Another big question is, what would the targets be? The issue is a sense that whatever is targeted, the attacks would need to be more intense than what took place almost exactly a year ago, after the sarin attack on Khan Sheikhoun in Idlib Province.

Tomahawk missile strikes on Shayrat Airfield—where the planes took off that dropped the sarin gas in this town in Idlib—did not serve as a sufficient deterrent to the regime. There have been a number of chlorine gas attacks since that attack took place. This one seems to have been particularly potent; there’s conjecture that perhaps it was sarin.

The question before the president, his advisors, and the U.S. military is: What is the sweet spot for the use of force significant to serve as a real deterrent and yet not so big that we end up in an uncontrollable cycle of escalation?

Targeting civilians—both by chemical weapons and more conventional means—has been part of Assad’s strategy all along. Could such measures actually change his calculations?

For Assad the stakes are nothing less than existential, and that in many ways informs his behavior. Douma is the last rebel-held town in the rebel-held enclave [of eastern Ghouta,] a suburb of Damascus, so from the regime’s perspective, it was a particularly threatening area. They have swept out nearly all of the rebels from this area. In fact, the chemical weapons attack seems to have done the trick; the last group of rebels, from Jaish al-Islam, agreed to evacuate.

Incremental pressure is not likely to bring about a shift in behavior, because for Assad, it’s win or die. To shift his calculus, a hit would have to be fairly significant, so that he feels his regime is somehow threatened. Yet that’s precisely the direction we don’t want to go in, because the last thing we want to see is the regime collapse and all-out chaos break out.

Don't miss: More Than 200 Million Eggs Recalled on East Coast Over Salmonella Fears

Damascus, Syria More

REUTERS/Bassam Khabieh

Is there a way to ply Iran and Russia from Assad, so that they bring some pressure to bear on him?

That is the play to be made. Their calculus—certainly Russia’s, and maybe to a lesser extent Iran’s—is somewhat different than Assad’s. For Russia, the stakes aren’t necessarily existential. We’re already seeing signals by the Russians, on the one hand, to threaten retaliation, but also that they’re concerned about what these strikes might yield. Reporting suggests that all of Russia’s naval assets have left the port of Tartus.

Story Continues2018 Standard Deduction: How Much It Is and Why You're More Likely Than Ever to Use ItWomen Talk About How Tax Cuts Are Already Improving Their Lives More

Although the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) doesn’t affect tax returns filed for 2017 (due this week), Americans already have a lot to celebrate about the new tax law. Independent Women’s Voice asked women to share on social media how tax reform had affected them, and many women did. Their stories ought to be told. First, there were the increased paychecks for people like Rebecca, Brianna, Laura, and Debra. Rebecca told us she had reservations about President Trump, but was nevertheless excited that tax reform will benefit her family “significantly.” Brianna said she’s getting $234 more in each paycheck, for a total of $2,808 per year. Debra told us she’s keeping $300 more of her money each paycheck,The U.S. tax code is quite complex, so it's no wonder than many Americans don't know how their income tax is determined. When calculating the amount of federal income tax you owe, the IRS goes through several steps, such as excluding certain items from your income, applying the current tax brackets, and making adjustments for any tax credits you qualify for.

With that in mind, here's an overview of how the IRS calculates your income tax, so you can get an idea of where your 2017, 2018, and future tax bills are coming from.

IRS tax forms surrounded by money. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Step one: Your gross income

First, the IRS starts with your gross income, which includes all of the money that you make. In addition to income from your job, this also includes business income, retirement income, interest income, dividend income, and capital gains from selling investments, just to name some of the most common sources. (Note: long-term capital gains and qualified dividends are considered separately when calculating tax, which I'll get to in a bit.)

As an example, let's say that you earned the following income in 2017:

Salary of $50,000

Net business profit of $20,000 from doing consulting work

Interest income of $5,000

In this case, your gross income for the year would be $75,000. However, you don't pay taxes on your gross income -- this simply serves as the starting point.

Step two: Determining your adjusted gross income (AGI)

Next, certain adjustments are applied to your gross income to determine -- you guessed it -- your adjusted gross income, or AGI. These are also known as "above the line" deductions, because you can use them regardless of whether you itemize deductions or take the standard deduction.

Adjustments to your income include:

Deductible retirement contributions to a traditional IRA or to a self-employed retirement plan such as a SEP-IRA (Note: 401(k) and similar plan contributions are generally already excluded from the income listed on your W-2).

Student loan interest, up to a maximum of $2,500.

K-12 educator expenses, up to $250.

Moving expenses, if your move was connected to a new job (discontinued for the 2018 tax year).

Alimony paid, although it must be claimed as income by the recipient (discontinued for divorces after December 31, 2018).

Bad debts -- if you're owed money and can't collect.

Tuition and fees -- Up to $4,000 if you qualify and don't also claim the American Opportunity Credit or Lifetime Learning Credit.

If any of these apply to you, subtract them from your gross income to arrive at your AGI.

Continuing our example, let's say that your gross income is $75,000 and that you have the following adjustments for 2017:

Traditional IRA contributions of $3,000

Student loan interest of $2,000

These would be subtracted from your gross income to arrive at an adjusted gross income of $70,000.

Step three: Apply deductions to find your taxable income

Next comes tax deductions. Now, Americans have two choices. They can add up all of the tax deductions to which they're entitled, or they can choose to take the standard deduction.

For the 2017 tax year (the return you filed or will file in 2018), the standard deduction is $6,350 for single filers, and $12,700 for married couples filing jointly. For the 2018 tax year, the standard deduction is increasing to $12,000 and $24,000 for single and joint filers, respectively.

You can choose to take your corresponding standard deduction, or take all of your actual tax deductions, whichever is higher. Mortgage interest, charitable contributions, state and local taxes, and certain medical expenses are some of the most common ones, but there are many other possible deductions.

The majority of Americans use the standard deduction, but it's often a good idea to calculate your taxes using both methods to see which is most advantageous.

For example, let's say that in our hypothetical example with an AGI of $70,000 in 2017, this taxpayer is single and has the following deductions:

$5,000 in mortgage insurance

$1,500 in charitable contributions

$1,000 in state income taxes

This adds up to $7,500, higher than the $6,350 standard deduction for 2017. So, they would use the higher figure, resulting in $62,500 in remaining income.

Step four: Apply your personal exemptions (for 2017 returns only)Earlier today, CBS This Morning aired a new clip from its sit-down interview with Tesla CEO Elon Musk. The clip below centers on Tesla’s Autopilot feature, a topic that has been in the news quite a bit over the past few weeks following a tragic crash that saw a Model X in Autopilot mode careen into a highway divider before the vehicle’s battery pack burst into flames.

In the wake of the accident, Tesla said that the car’s Autopilot system warned the driver to place his hands on the wheel in the seconds leading up to the crash, warnings that Tesla claims were not heeded.

Don't Miss: $39 device adds a real head-up display (HUD) to any car without using your phone

“The crash happened on a clear day with several hundred feet of visibility ahead,” Tesla said earlier this week, “which means that the only way for this accident to have occurred is if Mr. Huang was not paying attention to the road, despite the car providing multiple warnings to do so.”

As part of the interview, CBS This Morning co-host Gayle King went on a drive with Musk in a Model 3 where the two talked briefly about all things Autopilot. When asked about the benefits of Autopilot if the feature requires users to keep their hands on the wheel, Musk responded:

Oh, it’s because the probability of an accident with autopilot is just less.

Addressing the future of Autopilot, Musk added that Autopilot will never be perfect.

“But it’s important to emphasize that Autopilot will never be perfect,” Musk said. “Nothing in the real world is perfect. But I do think that, long term, it can reduce accidents by a factor of 10. So there are 10 fewer fatalities, and tragedies, and serious injuries. And that’s a huge difference.”

The full video can be seen below.

BGR Top Deals:

Trending Right Now:

See the original version of this article on BGR.comA U.S. Air Force B-1B Lancer, deployed to Al Udeid Air Base, launches a strike as part of the multinational response to Syria's use of chemical weapons is seen in this image from Al Udeid Air Base, Doha, Qatar released on April 14, 2018. U.S. Air Force/Handout via REUTERS

By Phil Stewart and Tom Perry

WASHINGTON/BEIRUT (Reuters) - Western powers said on Saturday their missile attacks struck at the heart of Syria's chemical weapons program, but the restrained assault appeared unlikely to halt Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's progress in the 7-year-old civil war.

The United States, France and Britain launched 105 missiles overnight in retaliation for a suspected poison gas attack in Syria a week ago, targeting what the Pentagon said were three chemical weapons facilities, including a research and development center in Damascus' Barzeh district and two installations near Homs.

The bombing was the biggest intervention by Western countries against Assad and his superpower ally Russia, but the three countries said the strikes were limited to Syria's chemical weapons capabilities and not aimed at toppling Assad or intervening in the civil war.

The air attack, denounced by Damascus and its allies as an illegal act of aggression, was unlikely to alter the course of a multisided war that has killed at least half a million people.

U.S. President Donald Trump called the operation a success.

He proclaimed on Twitter: "Mission accomplished," echoing former President George W. Bush, whose use of the same phrase in 2003 to describe the U.S. invasion of Iraq was widely ridiculed as violence there dragged on for years.

"We believe that by hitting Barzeh, in particular, we've attacked the heart of the Syrian chemicals weapon program," U.S. Lieutenant General Kenneth McKenzie said at the Pentagon.

However, McKenzie acknowledged elements of the program remain and he could not guarantee that Syria would be unable to conduct a chemical attack in the future.

The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, said at an emergency meeting of the U.N. Security Council that Trump told her that if Syria uses poisonous gas again, "The United States is locked and loaded."

The Western countries said the strikes were aimed at preventing more Syrian chemical weapons attacks after a suspected poison gas attack in Douma on April 7 killed up to 75 people. They blame Assad's government for the attack.

In Washington, a senior administration official said on Saturday that "while the available information is much greater on the chlorine use, we do have significant information that also points to sarin use" in the attack.

Speaking at a summit in Peru, U.S. Vice President Mike Pence seemed less sure of the use of sarin, saying that Washington may well determine that it was used along with chlorine.

ASSAD 'RESILIENCE'

Ten hours after the missiles hit, smoke was still rising from the remains of five destroyed buildings of the Syrian Scientific Research Center in Barzeh, where a Syrian employee said medical components were developed.

There were no immediate reports of casualties.

Syria released video of the wreckage of a bombed-out research lab, but also of Assad arriving at work as usual, with the caption "Morning of resilience".

Late on Saturday Syria time, a large explosion was heard in a Syrian government-controlled area in a rural region south of Aleppo, according to the Britain-based war monitor, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. The Observatory said the cause of the explosion was unknown, as well as its target.

Russian and Iranian military help over the past three years has allowed Assad to crush the rebel threat to topple him.

The United States, Britain and France have all participated in the Syrian conflict for years, arming rebels, bombing Islamic State fighters and deploying troops on the ground to fight that group. But they have refrained from targeting Assad's government, apart from a volley of U.S. missiles last year.

Although the Western countries have all said for seven years that Assad must leave power, they held back in the past from striking his government, lacking a wider strategy to defeat him.

Syria and its allies also made clear that they considered the attack a one-off, unlikely to do meaningful harm to Assad.

A senior official in a regional alliance that backs Damascus told Reuters the sites that were targeted had been evacuated days ago thanks to a warning from Russia.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said the strikes were "unacceptable and lawless."

Syrian state media called them a "flagrant violation of international law," while Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei called it a crime and the Western leaders criminals.

Story ContinuesThe Bank of America Corp. logo is displayed at the company's Financial Center in the Manhattan borough of New York, U.S., on Friday, Jan. 12, 2016. Bank of America is scheduled to report earnings data on January 19. Photographer: John Taggart

Bank of America Corp. shares are down as much as 1.1 percent in mid-morning trading, after the bank reported record first-quarter profits, helped by cost-cutting and after Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan flagged " solid U.S. consumer activity." Analysts, however, were a bit cool on the quarter, with several noting that low provisions and better tax rates drove the beat versus estimates, while loan growth was disappointing. The bank also stopped reporting fees from its once giant mortgage business .

Other banks are mixed in morning trading, with JPMorgan Chase & Co. up as much as 1.1 percent; Citigroup Inc. down as much as 1.4 percent, and Wells Fargo down as much as 1.1 percent; all three fell after reporting on Friday. The KBW bank index is paring gains of as much as 0.8 percent. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which both report results later this week, are higher in early trade.

More from Bloomberg.com: Warship Ruse and New Stealth Missiles: How the U.S. and Allies Attacked Syria

Here’s a sample of Wall Street commentary:

KBW, Brian Kleinhanzl

BAC results were "mixed," as lower taxes and provision expense drove the beat, while revenues and expenses "washed." With investors’ fears focused on deposit betas and loan growth, 1Q deposit betas were better but average loan growth missed, while end-of-period loan growth was better. Kleinhanzl notes BAC beat on expenses, though "if loan growth doesn’t materialize then expenses may not matter."

Goldman Sachs, Richard Ramsden

Results were "moderately better on NII growth, benign credit." Ramsden notes core revenues were up 3% y/y, while core expenses expanded 1%, with the efficiency ratio dropping below 60% for the first time in 1Q post-crisis. The benefit from the December rate hike and a steeper long end was offset by slightly weaker loan growth.

More from Bloomberg.com: How 105 Missiles Show Assad’s Future Is Safe

Baird, David George

1Q was "largely in line," as lower-than-est. provisioning and slightly higher fees offset higher expenses. "Investor expectations were rising for the market-sensitive banks, but results today look solid and consistent with recent trends," George says.

Nomura Instinet, Steven Chubak

"While revenues and credit continue to surprise positively vs Street expectations, the setup here is a bit tricky, as BAC remains a popular long and the results can best be described as ’good, not great.’"

More from Bloomberg.com: Former First Lady Barbara Bush in Failing Health, Spokesman Says

Atlantic, John Heagerty

"This looks like a good result at the operating level but the 5% EPS beat perhaps flatters the numbers," as the 5% adj. EPS beat was driven by lower provisions and a low effective tax rate.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read BofA Shares Drop With Wall Street Analysts Lukewarm on Results on bloomberg.comIf I Retire at 62 This Year, How Much Will I Collect in Social Security?The need for diverse development teams and truly representational data-sets to avoid biases being baked into AI algorithms is one of the core recommendations in a lengthy Lords committee report looking into the economic, ethical and social implications of artificial intelligence, and published today by the upper House of the UK parliament.

"The main ways to address these kinds of biases are to ensure that developers are drawn from diverse gender, ethnic and socio-economic backgrounds, and are aware of, and adhere to, ethical codes of conduct," the committee writes, chiming with plenty of extant commentary around algorithmic accountability.

“It is essential that ethics take centre stage in AI’s development and use," adds committee chairman, Lord Clement-Jones, in a statement. “The UK has a unique opportunity to shape AI positively for the public’s benefit and to lead the international community in AI’s ethical development, rather than passively accept its consequences."

The report also calls for the government to take urgent steps to help foster "the creation of authoritative tools and systems for auditing and testing training datasets to ensure they are representative of diverse populations, and to ensure that when used to train AI systems they are unlikely to lead to prejudicial decisions" -- recommending a publicly funded challenge to incentivize the development of technologies that can audit and interrogate AIs.

"The Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation, in consultation with the Alan Turing Institute, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the British Standards Institute and other expert bodies, should produce guidance on the requirement for AI systems to be intelligible," the committee adds. "The AI development sector should seek to adopt such guidance and to agree upon standards relevant to the sectors within which they work, under the auspices of the AI Council" -- the latter being a proposed industry body it wants established to help ensure "transparency in AI".

The committee is recommending a cross-sector AI Code to try to steer developments in a positive, societally beneficial direction -- though not for this to be codified in law (the suggestion is could "provide the basis for statutory regulation, if and when this is determined to be necessary").

Among the five principles they're suggesting as a starting point for the voluntary code are that AI should be developed for "the common good and benefit of humanity", and that it should operate on "principles of intelligibility and fairness".

Though, elsewhere in the report, the committee points out it can be a challenge for humans to understand decisions made by some AI technologies -- going on to suggest it may be necessary to refrain from using certain AI techniques for certain types of use-cases, at least until algorithmic accountability can be guaranteed.

"We believe it is not acceptable to deploy any artificial intelligence system which could have a substantial impact on an individual’s life, unless it can generate a full and satisfactory explanation for the decisions it will take," it writes in a section discussing 'intelligible AI'. "In cases such as deep neural networks, where it is not yet possible to generate thorough explanations for the decisions that are made, this may mean delaying their deployment for particular uses until alternative solutions are found."

A third principle the committee says it would like to see included in the proposed voluntary code is: "AI should not be used to diminish the data rights or privacy of individuals, families or communities".

Though this is a curiously narrow definition -- why not push for AI not to diminish rights, period?

"It’s almost as if 'follow the law' is too hard to say," observes Sam Smith, a coordinator at patient data privacy advocacy group, medConfidential, discussing the report.

Looking at the tech industry as a whole, it's certainly hard to conclude that self-defined 'ethics' appear to offer much of a meaningful check on commercial players' data processing and AI activities.

Topical case in point: Facebook has continued to claim there was nothing improper about the fact millions of people's information was shared with professor Aleksandr Kogan. People "knowingly provided their information" is the company's defensive claim.

Story Continues

Yet the vast majority of people whose personal data was harvested from Facebook by Kogan clearly had no idea what was possible under its platform terms -- which, until 2015, allowed one user to 'consent' to the sharing of all their Facebook friends. (Hence ~270,000 downloaders of Kogan's app being able to pass data on up to 87M Facebook users.)

So Facebook's self-defined 'ethical code' has been shown to be worthless -- aligning completely with its commercial imperatives, rather than supporting users to protect their privacy. (Just as its T&Cs are intended to cover its own "rear end", rather than clearly inform people's about their rights, as one US congressman memorably put it last week.)

“A week after Facebook were criticized by the US Congress, the only reference to the Rule of Law in this report is about exempting companies from liability for breaking it," Smith adds in a MedConfidential response statement to the Lords report. "Public bodies are required to follow the rule of law, and any tools sold to them must meet those legal obligations. This standard for the public sector will drive the creation of tools which can be reused by all."

Health data "should not be shared lightly"

The committee, which took evidence from Google -owned DeepMind as one of a multitude of expert witnesses during more than half a year's worth of enquiry, touches critically on the AI company's existing partnerships with UK National Health Service Trusts.

The first of which, dating from 2015 -- and involving the sharing of ~1.6 million patients' medical records with the Google-owned company -- ran into trouble with the UK's data protection regulator. The UK's information commissioner concluded last summer that the Royal Free NHS Trust's agreement with DeepMind had not complied with UK data protection law.

Patients' medical records were used by DeepMind to develop a clinical task management app wrapped around an existing NHS algorithm for detecting a condition known as acute kidney injury. The app, called Streams, has been rolled out for use in the Royal Free's hospitals -- complete with PR fanfare. But it's still not clear what legal basis exists to share patients' data.

"Maintaining public trust over the safe and secure use of their data is paramount to the successful widespread deployment of AI and there is no better exemplar of this than personal health data," the committee warns. "There must be no repeat of the controversy which arose between the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust and DeepMind. If there is, the benefits of deploying AI in the NHS will not be adopted or its benefits realised, and innovation could be stifled."

The report also criticizes the "current piecemeal" approach being taken by NHS Trusts to sharing data with AI developers -- saying this risks "the inadvertent under-appreciation of the data" and "NHS Trusts exposing themselves to inadequate data sharing arrangements".

"The data held by the NHS could be considered a unique source of value for the nation. It should not be shared lightly, but when it is, it should be done in a manner which allows for that value to be recouped," the committee writes.

A similar point -- about not allowing a huge store of potential value which is contained within publicly-funded NHS datasets to be cheaply asset-stripped by external forces -- was made by Oxford University’s Sir John Bell in a UK government-commissioned industrial strategy review of the life sciences sector last summer.

Despite similar concerns, the committee also calls for a framework for sharing NHS data be published by the end of the year, and is pushing for NHS Trusts to digitize their current practices and records -- with a target deadline of 2022 -- in "consistent formats" so that people's medical records can be made more accessible to AI developers.

But worryingly, given the general thrust towards making sensitive health data more accessible to third parties, the committee does not seem to have a very fine-grained grasp of data protection in a health context -- where, for example, datasets can be extremely difficult to render truly anonymous given the level of detail typically involved.

Although they are at least calling for the relevant data protection and patient data bodies to be involved in provisioning the framework for sharing NHS data, alongside Trusts that have already worked with DeepMind (and in one case received an ICO wrist-slap).

They write:

We recommend that a framework for the sharing of NHS data should be prepared and published by the end of 2018 by NHS England (specifically NHS Digital) and the National Data Guardian for Health and Care should be prepared with the support of the ICO [information commissioner's office] and the clinicians and NHS Trusts which already have experience of such arrangements (such as the Royal Free London and Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trusts), as well as the Caldicott Guardians [the NHS' patient data advocates]. This framework should set out clearly the considerations needed when sharing patient data in an appropriately anonymised form, the precautions needed when doing so, and an awareness of the value of that data and how it is used. It must also take account of the need to ensure SME access to NHS data, and ensure that patients are made aware of the use of their data and given the option to opt out.

As the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica scandal has clearly illustrated, opt-outs alone cannot safeguard people's data or their legal rights -- which is why incoming EU data protection rules (GDPR) beef up consent requirements to require a clear affirmative. (And it goes without saying that opt-outs are especially concerning in a medical context where the data involved is so sensitive -- yet, at least in the case of a DeepMind partnership with Taunton and Somerset NHS Trust, patients do not even appear to have been given the ability to say no to their data being processed.)

Opt-outs (i.e. rather than opt-in systems) for data-sharing and self-defined/voluntary codes of 'ethics' demonstrably do very little to protect people's legal rights where digital data is concerned -- even if it's true, for example, that Facebook holds itself in check vs what it could theoretically do with data, as company execs have suggested (one wonders what kind stuff they're voluntarily refraining from, given what they have been caught trying to manipulate).

The wider risk of relying on user savvy to regulate data sharing is that an educated, technologically aware few might be able to lock down -- or reduce -- access to their information; but the mainstream majority will have no clue they need to or even how it's possible. And data protection for a select elite doesn't sound very equitable.

Meanwhile, at least where this committee's attitude to AI is concerned, developers and commercial entities are being treated with favorable encouragement -- via the notion of a voluntary (and really pretty basic) code of AI ethics -- rather than being robustly reminded they need to follow the law.

Given the scope and scale of current AI-fueled sandals, that risks the committee looking naive.

Though the government has made AI a strategic priority, and policies to foster and accelerate data-sharing to drive tech developments are a key part of its digital and industrial strategies. So the report needs to be read within that wider context.

The committee does add its voice to questions about whether/how legal liability will mesh with automated decision making -- writing that "clarity is required" on whether "new mechanisms for legal liability and redress" are needed or not.

"We recommend that the Law Commission consider the adequacy of existing legislation to address the legal liability issues of AI and, where appropriate, recommend to Government appropriate remedies to ensure that the law is clear in this area," it adds on this. "At the very least, this work should establish clear principles for accountability and intelligibility. This work should be completed as soon as possible."

But this isn't exactly cutting edge commentary. Last month the government announced a three-year regulatory review focused on self-driving cars and the law, for instance. And the liability question is already well-aired -- and in the autonomous cars case, at least, already having its tires extensively kicked in the UK.

What's less specifically discussed in government circles is how AIs are demonstrably piling pressure on existing laws. And what -- if anything -- should be done to address those kind of AI-fueled breaking points. (Terrorist content has been an exception for some years, with government ministers more than happy to make platforms and technologies their scapegoat; more recently hate speech on online platforms has also become a major political target for governments in Europe.)

The committee briefly touches on some of these pressure points in a section on AI's impact on "social and political cohesion", noting concerns raised to it about issues such as filter bubbles and the risk of AIs being used to manipulate elections. "[T]here is a rapidly growing need for public understanding of, and engagement with, AI to develop alongside the technology itself. The manipulation of data in particular will be a key area for public understanding and discussion in the coming months and years," it writes here.

However it has little in the way of gunpowder -- merely recommending that research is commissioned into "the possible impact of AI on conventional and social media outlets", and to investigate "measures which might counteract the use of AI to mislead or distort public opinion as a matter of urgency".

Elsewhere in the report, it does also raise an interesting concern about data monopolies -- noting that investments by "large overseas technology companies in the UK economy" are "increasing consolidation of power and influence by a select few", which it argues risks damaging the UK’s home-grown AI start-up sector.

But again there's not much of substance in its response. The committee doesn't seem to have formed its own ideas on how or even whether the government needs to address data being concentrating power in the hands of big tech -- beyond calling for "strong" competition frameworks. This lack of conviction is attributed to hearing mixed messages on the topic from its witnesses. (Though may well also be related to the economic portion of the enquiry's focus.)

"The monopolisation of data demonstrates the need for strong ethical, data protection and competition frameworks in the UK, and for continued vigilance from the regulators," it concludes. "We urge the Government, and the Competition and Markets Authority, to review proactively the use and potential monopolisation of data by the big technology companies operating in the UK."

The report also raises concerns about access to funding for UK AI startups to ensure they can continue scaling domestic businesses -- recommending that a chunk of the £2.5BN investment fund at the British Business Bank, which the government announced in the Autumn Budget 2017, is "reserved as an AI growth fund for SMEs with a substantive AI component, and be specifically targeted at enabling such companies to scale up".

No one who supports the startup cause would argue with trying to make more money available. But if data access has been sealed up by tech giants all the scale up funding in the world won't help domestic AI startups break through that algorithmic ceiling.

Also touched on: The looming impact of Brexit, with the committee calling on the government to "commit to underwriting, and where necessary replacing, funding for European research and innovation programmes, after we have left the European Union" . Which boils down to another whistle in a now very long score of calls for replacement funding after the UK leaves the EU.

Funding for regulators is another concern, with a warning that the ICO must be "adequately and sustainably resourced" -- as a result of the additional burden the committee expects AI to put on existing regulators.

This issue is also on the radar of the UK's digital minister, Matt Hancock, who has said he's considering what additional resources the ICO might need -- such as the power to compel testimony from individuals. (Though the ICO itself has previously raised concerns that the minister and his data protection bill are risking undermining her authority.) For now it remains to be seen how well armed the agency will be to meet the myriad challenges generated and scaled by AI's data processors.

"Blanket AI-specific regulation, at this stage, would be inappropriate," the report adds. "We believe that existing sector-specific regulators are best placed to consider the impact on their sectors of any subsequent regulation which may be needed. We welcome that the Data Protection Bill and GDPR appear to address many of the concerns of our witnesses regarding the handling of personal data, which is key to the development of AI. The Government Office for AI, with the Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation, needs to identify the gaps, if any, where existing regulation may not be adequate. The Government Office for AI must also ensure that the existing regulators’ expertise is utilised in informing any potential regulation that may be required in the future."

The committee's last two starter principles for their voluntary AI code serve to underline how generously low the ethical bar is really being set here -- boiling down to: AI shouldn't be allowed to kill off free schools for our kids, nor be allowed to kill us -- which may itself be another consequence of humans not always being able to clearly determine how AI does what it does or exactly what it might be doing to us.Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg arrives to testify before a Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees joint hearing regarding the company’s use and protection of user data, on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC, U.S., April 10, 2018. REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

By David Ingram

SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Concern about Facebook Inc's respect for data privacy is widening to include the information it collects about non-users, after Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said the world's largest social network tracks people whether they have accounts or not.

Privacy concerns have swamped Facebook since it acknowledged last month that information about millions of users wrongly ended up in the hands of political consultancy Cambridge Analytica, a firm that has counted U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 electoral campaign among its clients.

Zuckerberg said on Wednesday under questioning by U.S. Representative Ben Luján that, for security reasons, Facebook also collects "data of people who have not signed up for Facebook."

Lawmakers and privacy advocates immediately protested the practice, with many saying Facebook needed to develop a way for non-users to find out what the company knows about them.

"We've got to fix that," Representative Luján, a Democrat, told Zuckerberg, calling for such disclosure, a move that would have unclear effects on the company's ability to target ads. Zuckerberg did not respond. On Friday Facebook said it had no plans to build such a tool.

Critics said that Zuckerberg has not said enough about the extent and use of the data. "It's not clear what Facebook is doing with that information," said Chris Calabrese, vice president for policy at the Center for Democracy & Technology, a Washington advocacy group.





COOKIES EVERYWHERE

Facebook gets some data on non-users from people on its network, such as when a user uploads email addresses of friends. Other information comes from "cookies," small files stored via a browser and used by Facebook and others to track people on the internet, sometimes to target them with ads.

"This kind of data collection is fundamental to how the internet works," Facebook said in a statement to Reuters.

Asked if people could opt out, Facebook added, "There are basic things you can do to limit the use of this information for advertising, like using browser or device settings to delete cookies. This would apply to other services beyond Facebook because, as mentioned, it is standard to how the internet works."

Facebook often installs cookies on non-users' browsers if they visit sites with Facebook "like" and "share" buttons, whether or not a person pushes a button. Facebook said it uses browsing data to create analytics reports, including about traffic to a site.

The company said it does not use the data to target ads, except those inviting people to join Facebook.





TARGETING FACEBOOK

Advocates and lawmakers say they are singling out Facebook because of its size, rivaled outside China only by Alphabet Inc's Google, and because they allege Zuckerberg was not forthcoming about the extent and reasons for the tracking.

"He's either deliberately misunderstanding some of the questions, or he's not clear about what's actually happening inside Facebook's operation," said Daniel Kahn Gillmor, a senior staff technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union.

Zuckerberg, for instance, said the collection was done for security purposes, without explaining further or saying whether it was also used for measurement or analytics, Gillmor said, adding that Facebook had a business incentive to use the non-user data to target ads.

Facebook declined to comment on why Zuckerberg referred to security only.

Gillmor said Facebook could build databases on non-users by combining web browsing history with uploaded contacts. Facebook said on Friday that it does not do so.

The ACLU is pushing U.S. lawmakers to enact broad privacy legislation including a requirement for consent prior to data collection.

The first regulatory challenge to Facebook's practices for non-users may come next month when a new European Union law, known as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), takes effect and requires notice and consent prior to data collection.

At a minimum, "Facebook is going to have to think about ways to structure their technology to give that proper notice," said Woodrow Hartzog, a Northeastern University professor of law and computer science.

Facebook said in its statement on Friday, "Our products and services comply with applicable law and will comply with GDPR."

The social network would be wise to recognize at least a right to know, said Michael Froomkin, a University of Miami law professor.

"If I'm not a Facebook user, I ought to have a right to know what data Facebook has about me," Froomkin said.





(Reporting by David Ingram; Editing by Peter Henderson and Richard Chang)U.S. stock futures are trading broadly higher this morning. Wall Street has turned its attention toward earnings season following a U.S.-led missile strike in Syria this weekend.

stock market today More

Bank of America Corp (NYSE:BAC) set the tone for trading today. The company said that earnings jumped 51% to 62 cents per share on revenue of $23.1 billion. Analysts were expecting earnings of 59 cents per share on sales of $22.907 billion. BAC stock is up nearly 1% in premarket trading.

As for futures activity, Dow Jones Industrial Average futures are up 0.73%, S&P 500 futures have added 0.73% and Nasdaq-100 futures are up 0.77%.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Turning to the options pits, volume rebounded sharply on Friday. About 18.5 million calls and 17.6 million puts changed hands on the session. The CBOE single-session equity put/call volume ratio ticked higher to 0.66. The 10-day moving average held at 0.66.

Friday’s options activity saw Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) with mixed volume after the company released its new Ryzen lineup. Meanwhile, JPMorgan Chase & Co. (NYSE:JPM) was call heavy as investors digested the company’s quarter earnings miss. Finally, NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NASDAQ:NXPI) was flooded with put volume after the company extended its merger deadline with Qualcomm Inc. (NASDAQ:QCOM).

Monday’s Vital Options Data: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) and NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXPI) More

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD)

AMD released its second-generation of Ryzen processors to very little fanfare on Friday. The new processor lineup includes the flagship eight-core Ryzen 7 2700X, which sells for $329. By comparison, Intel corporation’s current top chip, the i7-8700K, has only six-cores and sells for around $350. AMD’s new lineup goes on sale April 19.

AMD stock options traders appear to be more concerned with the continued drop in cryptocurrencies, however. Volume on Friday jumped to 390,000 contracts, nearly doubling AMD’s daily average. Calls only made up 53% of the day’s take.

Surprisingly, the May options series has turned quite bullish in the past week. Currently, the May put/call open interest ratio rests at 0.49, with calls more than doubling puts among back month options. Options traders are clearly betting on a post-earnings surge for AMD, which has yet to announce an official release date.





JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)

JPMorgan stock is getting a boost this morning from BofA’s solid quarterly earnings report. JPM itself released earnings last week, which were praised heavily in the financial media. However, Friday saw JPM stock drop sharply as investors pushed past the talking heads and dove deeper into JPMorgan’s quarterly earnings miss.

Profit taking was clearly in the works on Friday. Volume soared to 330,000 contracts, or more than four times JPM’s daily average. Calls made up 68% of the day’s take.

Checking in with May options, JPM speculators are not anticipating much follow-through buying. In fact, the May put/call OI ratio arrives at a lofty 1.10, with puts clearly in command. Whether these puts are protective or outright bearish in nature, this negative sentiment backdrop could be a warning for JPM stock going forward.

NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXPI)

NXP Semiconductors extended the deadline for its $44 billion merger deal with Qualcomm on Friday. The deal has been signed off on by all countries concerns, save China. The Wall Street Journal reported over the weekend that Chinese regulatory reviews had slowed amid U.S.-China trade tensions, casting some questions over the NXPI/QCOM deal.

NXPI stock options traders are decidedly nervous about the extension. Volume on Friday soared to 242,000 contracts — more than six times NXPI’s daily average. What’s more, puts made up the bulk of Friday’s activity, claiming 77% of all activity.

A majority of those puts are holed up in the May series. At last check, the May put/call OI ratio had ballooned to a reading of 1.85, with puts nearly doubling calls for the series. That said, many of these puts could be related to arbitrage plays surrounding the merger deal — especially with the new deadline now set for April 25.

As of this writing, Joseph Hargett was long on Advanced Micro Devices (AMD).

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Mondayâ€™s Vital Data: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD), JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) and NXP Semiconductors N.V. (NXPI) appeared first on InvestorPlace.Shares of Goldman Sachs (GS) gained as much as 1.2% in early morning trading Monday, just one day before the investment banking behemoth is scheduled to release its latest quarterly earnings results. But what should Goldman Sachs investors expect to see on Tuesday morning? Let's take a closer look.

Shares of Goldman Sachs GS gained as much as 1.2% in early morning trading Monday, just one day before the investment banking behemoth is scheduled to release its latest quarterly earnings results. Investors will hope Goldman’s results continue the strong trend for the finance sector, with commercial banks like JPMorgan Chase JPM, Citigroup C, and Bank of America BAC already impressing.

Bank of America rounded out the major consumer & investment hybrid banks with its new report on Monday morning. The company posted better-than-expected earnings and total revenue growth of 4%. These results were buoyed by 38% growth in equity trading income.

Bank of America’s strong equity trading revenues echoed a similar trend witnessed by JPMorgan and Citigroup, which reported revenue growth of 26% and 38%, respectively, in this segment. It appears that fresh volatility in global stock markets has inspired busier activity in these divisions.

But what should Goldman Sachs investors expect to see on Tuesday morning? Let’s take a closer look.

Latest Outlook and Valuation

Based on our latest Zacks Consensus Estimates, we expect Goldman Sachs to report earnings of $5.67 per share and revenue of $8.89 billion. These results would represent year-over-year growth of 10.1% and 10.7%, respectively. It is worth noting that Goldman’s earnings estimates have trending higher recently, adding about 26 cents within the past month.

Of course, earnings and revenue are just two of the many things investors will be concerned with when Goldman reports on Tuesday. We can also turn to our exclusive non-financial metrics consensus estimate file to prepare.

The Zacks Consensus NFM file contains detailed estimate data for business segment metrics and non-financial metrics reported by companies. The data is acquired from digest and contributing broker models and includes the independent research of expert stock market analysts.

According to these consensus estimates, Goldman is on track to post revenue of $1.81 billion in its Institutional Client Services, Total Equities segment. This would mark growth of 8.4% year over year. Meanwhile, revenue in the company’s Investing & Lending, Equity Securities division is expected to be $915 million, up about 14.7% from the year-ago period.

Heading into today, GS was trading with a Forward P/E of 11.3, which is basically in line with its industry’s average of 11.7. Within the past year, the stock has traded as high as 13.5x forward 12-month earnings and as low as 10.5x. Its median earnings multiple over that time is 11.7x. Investors might conclude that GS shares are slightly discounted compared to their recent valuations.

Earnings ESP Whispers

Investors will also want to anticipate the likelihood that Goldman Sachs surprises investors with better-than-anticipated earnings results. For this, we turn to our Earnings ESP figure.

Zacks Earnings ESP (Expected Surprise Prediction) looks to find earnings surprises by focusing on the most recent analyst estimates. This is done because, generally speaking, when an analyst posts an estimate right before an earnings release, it means that they have fresh information which could potentially be more accurate than what analysts thought about a company two or three months ago.Visitors pass in front of the Chinese telecoms equipment group ZTE Corp booth at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, February 26, 2018. REUTERS/Sergio Perez

By Steve Stecklow and Karen Freifeld

LONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. Department of Commerce has banned American companies from selling components to leading Chinese telecom equipment maker ZTE Corp for seven years for violating the terms of a sanctions violation case, U.S. officials said on Monday.

The U.S. action, first reported by Reuters, could be devastating to ZTE since American companies are estimated to provide 25 percent to 30 percent of the components used in ZTE’s equipment, which includes networking gear and smartphones.

The ban is the result of ZTE's failure to comply with an agreement with the U.S. government after it pleaded guilty last year in federal court in Texas to conspiring to violate U.S. sanctions by illegally shipping U.S. goods and technology to Iran.





The Chinese company, which sells smartphones in the United States, paid $890 million in fines and penalties, with an additional penalty of $300 million that could be imposed.

"If the company is not able to resolve it, they may very well be put out of business by this. Many banks and companies even outside the U.S. are not going to want to deal with them," said Eric Hirschhorn, a former U.S. Undersecretary of Commerce who was heavily involved in the case.

As part of the agreement, Shenzhen-based ZTE Corp promised to dismiss four senior employees and discipline 35 others by either reducing their bonuses or reprimanding them, senior Commerce Department officials told Reuters. But the Chinese company admitted in March that while it had fired the four senior employees, it had not disciplined or reduced bonuses to the 35 others.

Under terms of the ban, U.S. companies cannot export prohibited goods, such as chip sets, directly to ZTE or via another country, beginning immediately.

Shares of big U.S. ZTE suppliers fell sharply on the Commerce ban. Acacia Communications Inc, which got 30 percent of its total 2017 revenue from ZTE, tumbled 35 percent, hitting a near two-year low.

Shares of optical companies including Lumentum Holdings Inc fell 6.6 percent and Finisar Corp dropped 2.7 percent. Oclaro Inc, which got 18 percent of its fiscal 2017 revenue from ZTE, lost 13.1 percent.

ZTE "provided information back to us basically admitting that they had made these false statements," said a senior department official. "That was in response to the U.S. asking for the information."

"We can’t trust what they are telling us is truthful," the official said. "And in international commerce, truth is pretty important."

ZTE officials did not immediately respond to requests for comment.

The ban on supplying ZTE comes two months after two Republican Senators introduced legislation to block the U.S. government from buying or leasing telecommunications equipment from ZTE or its Chinese rival Huawei Technologies Co Ltd, citing concern the companies would use their access to spy on U.S. officials.

Meanwhile, Britain's main cyber security agency said on Monday it has written to organizations in the UK's telecommunications sector warning about using services or equipment from ZTE.





'DEVASTATING'

Douglas Jacobson, an exports control lawyer who represents suppliers to ZTE, called the ban highly unusual and said it would severely affect the company.

“This will be devastating to the company, given their reliance on U.S. products and software,” said Jacobson. “It’s certainly going to make it very difficult for them to produce and will have a potentially significant short and long-term negative impact on the company.”

ZTE has sold handset devices to U.S. mobile carriers AT&T Inc, T-Mobile US Inc and Sprint Corp. It has relied on U.S. companies including Qualcomm Inc, Microsoft Corp and Intel Corp for components.

The U.S. action against ZTE is likely to further exacerbate current tensions between Washington and Beijing over trade. After the U.S. placed export restrictions on ZTE in 2016 for Iran sanctions violations, the China’s Ministry of Commerce and Foreign Ministry criticized the decision.

A five-year federal investigation found last year that ZTE had conspired to evade U.S. embargoes by buying U.S. components, incorporating them into ZTE equipment and illegally shipping them to Iran.

ZTE, which devised elaborate schemes to hide the illegal activity, agreed to plead guilty after the Commerce Department took actions that threatened to cut off its global supply chain.

Story ContinuesA month has gone by since the last earnings report for Geron Corporation GERN. Shares have added about 10.6% in that time frame.

Will the recent positive trend continue leading up to its next earnings release, or is GERN due for a pullback? Before we dive into how investors and analysts have reacted as of late, let's take a quick look at the most recent earnings report in order to get a better handle on the important catalysts.

Geron Q4 Loss Flat Year Over Year, Revenues Surge

Geron reported a loss of 5 cents per share for the fourth quarter of 2017, which was wider than the Zacks Consensus Estimate of a loss of 4 cents and flat compared with the year-ago period.

Quarterly revenues surged 103% to $0.19 million from the year-ago quarter. Revenues, however, missed the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1 million. Revenues comprised royalty and license fee revenues received under various non-imetelstat license agreements.

Research and development (R&D) expenses declined 39% to $2.5 million due to lower costs for the proportionate share of clinical development costs for imetelstat.

General and administrative (G&A) expenses rose 14.6% to $5.5 million due to increased stock-based compensation and consulting costs, partially offset by lower legal costs.

The company ended the quarter with $109.2 million in cash and investments compared with $112.7 million at the end of the third quarter.

2017 Results

Revenues for the full year were significantly down to $1.1 million from $6.2 million in the year-ago period. We note that revenues in the year-ago quarter had included a $5 million upfront payment from Janssen related to a licensing agreement.

The company reported a loss of 18 cents for the year, narrower than the year-ago loss of 19 cents.

R&D expenses were down 38.9% to $11 million while G&A expenses were up 2.7% to $19.3 million.

How Have Estimates Been Moving Since Then?

Analysts were quiet during the last two month period as none of them issued any earnings estimate revisions.

Geron Corporation Price and Consensus

Geron Corporation Price and Consensus | Geron Corporation Quote

VGM Scores

At this time, GERN has a poor Growth Score of F, however its Momentum is doing a lot better with an A. However, the stock was allocated a grade of F on the value side, putting it in the lowest quintile for this investment strategy.

Overall, the stock has an aggregate VGM Score of F. If you aren't focused on one strategy, this score is the one you should be interested in.

The company's stock is suitable solely for momentum based on our styles scores.

Outlook

GERN has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold). We expect an in-line return from the stock in the next few months.



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Geron Corporation (GERN) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchDespite a strong surprise history, Bed Bath & Beyond (BBBY) stock plunges more than 19% in the last two trading sessions, mainly due to a bleak outlook for fiscal 2018.

A month has gone by since the last earnings report for Superior Industries International, Inc. SUP. Shares have lost about 10.7% in that time frame.

Will the recent negative trend continue leading up to its next earnings release, or is SUP due for a breakout? Before we dive into how investors and analysts have reacted as of late, let's take a quick look at its most recent earnings report in order to get a better handle on the important drivers.

Superior Industries Q4 Earnings Surpass Estimates

Superior Industries’ adjusted earnings of 38 cents per share for fourth-quarter 2017 topped the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 24 cents. Including after-tax expense and the impact of U.S. tax reform, net loss for the quarter was $4.6 million or 50 cents per share.

Revenues were $361.8 million in the reported quarter, missing the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $363.8 million. However, the reported figure was higher than $188.3 million recorded in the year-ago quarter.

Wheel unit shipments were 5.4 million compared with 3.1 million in the prior-year quarter. The rise is primarily due to the addition of its European operations, partly offset by a decline in the North American market compared with the prior-year quarter. Value-added sales, i.e., net sales minus pass-through charges for aluminum, increased to $203.5 million compared with $106.4 million in fourth-quarter 2016.

Gross profit rose to $39.7 million from $18 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase was due to the addition of European operations, partly offset by non-recurring effects of purchase, accounting adjustments of $1.3 million related to the buyout of UNIWHEELS and ongoing amortization of intangibles related to the acquisition.

Selling, general and administrative expenses jumped to $25.9 million in fourth-quarter 2017 from $6.9 million in the prior-year quarter, resulting from the addition of European operations, costs of around $7.2 million linked with the acquisition and integration of UNIWHEELS and compensation expenses in North America.

Full-Year 2017 Results

Superior Industries reported loss of $1.01 per share in 2017, down from earnings per share of $1.62 in 2016.

In 2017, revenues increased to $1,108.1 million from $732.7 million in 2016.

Financial Details

In fourth-quarter 2017, Superior Industries’ net cash, generated from operating activities, was $46.5 million compared with $39.2 million in the year-ago period. The increase was primarily due to the rise in working capital and the addition of European operations, which were partly offset by expenses related to the acquisition.

Outlook

For 2018, Superior Industries reaffirmed its net sales, value-added sales, adjusted EBITDA, capital expenditures and working capital.

The company expects net sales for 2018 to be $1.45-$1.5 billion, driven by 21.25-21.6 million units of shipment. Superior Industries expects value-added sales to be $800-$835 million. Adjusted EBITDA is expected to be $185-$200 million. The company projects capital expenditure to be around $95 million.

How Have Estimates Been Moving Since Then?

In the past month, investors have witnessed a downward trend in fresh estimates. There have been two revisions lower for the current quarter.

Superior Industries International, Inc. Price and Consensus

Story ContinuesWhen a company reports its financial results, it usually provides investors with a wealth of information to digest. While it's worthwhile to study a company's results in great detail, it's important to be able to cut right to the heart of the results to understand how the company is doing.

In this column, I'd like to go over three key metrics that investors in chip giant Intel Corp. (NASDAQ: INTC) should focus on whenever the company reports its quarterly earnings results.

A wafer of Intel processors with a chip on top of the wafer. More

Image source: Intel.

1. Revenue growth

Intel is a large, relatively mature company that dominates many of the markets in which it participates, so revenue growth for a behemoth like Intel can be much harder to achieve than it is for a much smaller company.

Nevertheless, it's important for technology companies -- even large ones -- to deliver revenue growth over time, especially as revenue growth is typically required to drive sustainable profit growth.

Intel said back in early 2017 that investors should look for the company to deliver revenue growth in "low single digit" percentages in the subsequent three years (so that's 1% to 3% growth each year beginning in 2017 and going through 2019).

The chip giant delivered 5.7% revenue growth in 2017, exceeding its stated target, and analysts expect the company to turn in 3.6% revenue growth in 2018, and another 3.7% in 2019 -- a little better than what Intel itself guided to.

If Intel can meet or exceed those targets, Wall Street should be happy. If not, then I'd expect the stock price to reflect that disappointment.

2. Gross profit margin

Gross profit margin is another metric that investors should watch. Intel's publicly stated percentage target for gross profit margin is between 55% and 65%, though in recent years the company has delivered numbers solidly in the upper end of that range.

INTC Gross Profit Margin (Annual) Chart More

INTC Gross Profit Margin (Annual) data by YCharts.

During Intel's 2017 investor meeting, the company told investors to expect its gross profit margin percentages in 2017, 2018, and 2019 to be in the upper half of that range, or at least 60%.

Now, this figure has historically represented Intel's competitiveness (e.g. processor pricing power and product cost structure) and to a large degree it still does (which is why higher is generally better here). However, Intel's business has become more diverse in recent years as the company tries to sell products beyond computer processors.Tired of keeping a close eye on financial news and popping in and out of positions in an effort to get the most out of an increasingly volatile market?

If so, you’re not alone. There is a solution, however, for investors who’ve become mentally exhausted thanks to a bull market that has now persisted for a stunning nine years — just buy some dividend stocks and stop watching the market every day. Go find a new hobby instead. With some stocks, you really are better off just leaving them alone and letting time do the hard work for you.

With that as the backdrop, if you don’t know how or where to start a hunt for new income-oriented holdings, here’s a look at ten great dividend stocks that would at home in almost any investor’s portfolio. They’re all more reliable than average, and represent companies that can weather almost any storm.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

In no certain order…

Editor’s Note: This article originally ran January 9, 2018. It has since been republished to reflect changes in dividend yield.





Dividend Stocks to Buy: AT&T (T)

Dividend Stocks to Buy: AT&T (T) More

Source: Mike Mozart via Flickr

Dividend Yield: 5.7%

Telecom giant AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) is an oldie but a goodie, and with uncharacteristic weakness from the stock since the middle of 2016, the dividend yield has been pumped up to an impressive 5.7%. That’s a dividend that has been paid every quarter for the past few decades, by the way, and raised like clockwork every year since 1984.

Sure, AT&T has got headaches right now, even beyond its usual competition. The deal to pair up with Time Warner Inc (NYSE:TWX) hasn’t exactly been smooth sailing. Industry insiders are relatively certain it’s going to happen despite the DOJ’s interference though, and in that AT&T is leading the race to make 5G connectivity a reality, it should be able to keep its wireless competitors in check at the same time it ramps up enrollments in its streaming cable service DirecTV Now.

AT&T looks to be firing on all cylinders.





Dividend Stocks to Buy: Blackstone Group (BX)

Dividend Stocks to Buy: Blackstone Group (BX) More

Source: Shutterstock

Dividend Yield: 8.77%

Blackstone Group LP (NYSE:BX) isn’t a traditional company. In fact, it’s not a company at all. It’s an organization that owns and financially supports a variety of other companies, and in some cases gets involved in the management of them. It’s a private equity firm, but it’s so much more than just that.

Additionally, it’s good at what it does, and that’s good for income-seeking investors. While the dividend payout can vary unpredictably from one quarter to the next, broadly speaking it has been on the rise for quite some time, and a dividend of some sort has always been dished out. And if the economy heats and up in interest rates rise, much like a bank, that’s very good for Blackstone’s bottom line as it will eventually makes its way back into the pocket of shareholders.

The dividend yield of 8.7%, in the meantime, isn’t too shabby either.





Dividend Stocks to Buy: AmTrust Financial Services (AFSI)

Dividend Stocks to Buy: AmTrust Financial Services (AFSI) More

Source: 401(K) 2012 via Flickr (Modified)

Dividend Yield: 5.43%