President Trump suggested on Wednesday that the man who adult-film star Stormy Daniels says threatened her in a Las Vegas parking lot is “nonexistent.”

Daniels and her lawyer, Michael Avenatti, unveiled a composite sketch of the man on ABC’s “The View” on Tuesday. Daniels, who says she had an affair with Trump in 2006, said the man approached her and her young daughter in 2011 after she had agreed to tell her story to a tabloid magazine and told her to leave Trump alone. According to Daniels, the man — a “lean but fit” white male in his 30s or 40s — then looked at her daughter and said, “That’s a beautiful little girl. It’d be a shame if something happened to her mom.”

Avenatti is offering $131,000 for information leading to the man’s identification, asking the public to send tips to the email address idthethug@gmail.com.

“A sketch years later about a nonexistent man,” Trump tweeted on Wednesday. “A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)!”

It was the first time Trump addressed the Stormy scandal on Twitter.

Avenatti fired back with a reference to last week’s FBI raid on the office and hotel room of Michael Cohen, Trump’s personal lawyer, who made a $130,000 hush money payment to Daniels 11 days before the 2016 presidential election.

“FBI search warrants uncovering EXISTING documents and recordings showing con job after con job pulled on REAL people and very REAL American citizens (who didn’t know it),” Avenatti wrote on Twitter, adding: “In my experience, there is nothing better in litigation than having a completely unhinged, undisciplined opponent who is prone to shooting himself in the foot. Always leads to BIGLY problems…like new claims (i.e. defamation).”

The president’s Twitter missive included a retweet that contained the composite sketch alongside an undated photo of a smiling Daniels and a man bearing some resemblance to the man in the sketch.

Shortly after the sketch was released, Twitter lit up with users mockingly posting photos of famous men who look like the alleged “thug.” Among them: Quarterback Tom Brady, retired outfielder Johnny Damon and actor Willem Dafoe.

Does this sketch look like Tom Brady? Twitter seems to think so: https://t.co/JJrfGEhLid pic.twitter.com/eJyshGlzTj — Yahoo Sports (@YahooSports) April 17, 2018





Appearing on CNN Tuesday night, Avenatti said that they have already gathered “a lot of leads.”

“We’ve narrowed the field to a handful of people that we believe that it may be,” Avenatti said. “But we want to make absolutely sure as to who this is before we make an announcement.”

Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, filed suit against Cohen and Trump last month, seeking to void the nondisclosure agreement because it was allegedly never signed by Trump.

On CBS’s “60 Minutes” last month, Daniels spoke publicly for the first time about her alleged tryst with Trump. Daniels said she met Trump at a July 2006 golf tournament and had consensual sex with him in his hotel suite. (At the time, Trump had been married to Melania Trump for over a year; their son, Barron, was less than 5 months old.)

Years later, Daniels said, she agreed to sell her story to a sister publication of In Touch magazine for $15,000, but the story never ran. Two former employees of the magazine told CBS News that Cohen threatened to sue the publication if it ran the article. Daniels said afterward she was approached by the man in a Las Vegas parking lot.

A day after the “60 Minutes” interview aired, White House spokesman Raj Shah told reporters that “the president doesn’t believe any of the claims Ms. Daniels made last night.”

When asked whether Trump believes Daniels’s claim she was threatened, Shah replied, “No, he does not.”

“He just doesn’t believe, you know, there’s nothing to corroborate her claim,” Shah said.

(Cover tile photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Heidi Gutman/ABC via AP, Michael Avenatti via AP, Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP)

Read more from Yahoo News:NEW YORK (AP) — Federal prosecutors said Wednesday that they can give President Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, copies of most of the materials seized from him by the FBI by May 11.

The U.S. attorney's office in New York told U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood that it can begin turning over materials on April 27.

It expects most of the items to be shared within two weeks, though it could take longer to extract information from seized telephones, the letter said.

Prosecutors have disclosed that they are investigating Cohen's personal business dealings for fraud but haven't said what crime they believe he has committed. Cohen's lawyers have called the raid an assault on attorney-client privilege.

Wood said at a hearing Monday that she might grant a request by Cohen's attorneys to appoint a neutral lawyer known as a "special master" to help resolve some conflicts over attorney-client privilege, though she said she anticipated that person would have a limited role.

Prosecutors recommended she set a May 25 date for a court conference to decide the issue.

Each side suggested several candidates for special master on Wednesday. Among names offered by Cohen's lawyers was Bart M. Schwartz, an attorney who once worked as chief of the criminal division when former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani was the U.S. attorney in Manhattan in the 1980s.

Giuliani campaigned with Trump during his 2016 run to the presidency.

Prosecutors offered the names of three retired magistrate judges they said had plenty of experience at resolving attorney-client privilege issues.

And they reiterated their argument that they don't believe the appointment of a special master is necessary.

Prosecutors said a special master probably could not start working until at least June, delaying the review of materials seized pursuant to a warrant issued this month.

At Monday's hearing, Wood called it a "viable option" to let lawyers at the prosecutor's office who are not part of the criminal probe review seized materials for anything subject to attorney-client privilege.

"I have faith in the Southern District U.S. Attorney's Office that their integrity is unimpeachable," she said.

But Wood added: "In terms of perception of fairness, not fairness itself, but perception of fairness, a special master might have a role here. Maybe not the complete role, but some role. My interest is in getting this moving efficiently and speedily."Scott Pruitt, administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), stands for a photograph after an interview in his office at the EPA headquarters in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017. Pruitt vowed that he will get tough on corporate polluters, dismissing critics who cast him as too cozy with industry.

The White House budget office is investigating the EPA’s spending of $43,000 on a secure phone booth for Administrator Scott Pruitt’s office.

"I’m not any happier about it than you are," Mick Mulvaney, the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, told House lawmakers at hearing Wednesday.

The new inquiry comes just days after the General Accountability Office concluded the Environmental Protection Agency violated spending laws partly by failing to give Congress required advance notification about the planned purchase of the secure telecommunications booth. The GAO also said the EPA ran afoul of the Antideficiency Act, a measure prohibiting federal agencies from spending government funds in advance or in excess of an appropriation. Federal employees who violate the law are subject to suspension from duty without pay or removal from office, as well as fines and imprisonment.

If the Office of Management and Budget investigation concluded the Antideficiency Act was violated, Mulvaney said, "we would talk to the lawyers to figure out what the appropriate steps are."

Read More: EPA’s $43,000 Secure Phone Booth Came With Sound-Trapping Vents

Mulvaney said he doesn’t think anyone has ever faced criminal penalties for violating the act. That includes Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Ben Carson, who drew fire for ordering $31,000 a customized hardwood dining set. Since Carson canceled that spending, Mulvaney said, the budget office did not launch a probe of the matter.

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Confirms CIA Director Mike Pompeo Met With Kim Jong Un

Representatives of the budget office did not immediately respond to an emailed request for more details.

The OMB probe marks another complication for the EPA and Pruitt, who already is under intense scrutiny for his unorthodox $50-per-night rental of a Capitol Hill bedroom from a lobbyist, frequent travel to his home state of Oklahoma and what one former aide has described as a practice of retribution against employees who challenge the administrator.

The EPA says the phone booth purchase did not violate a prohibition on spending more than $5,000 to furnish or redecorate an agency head’s office because it was needed for official business. Funding for the project came from an environmental programs and management account -- part of roughly $6 million spent annually on operation and maintenance for EPA headquarters.

More from Bloomberg.com: Arpaio to Face Special Prosecutor Over Bid to Vacate Conviction

The GAO’s report didn’t delve into whether the phone booth was appropriate or necessary; instead, it focused on whether the EPA should have notified Congress before spending the money as required under Section 710 of a government funding bill.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read White House to Investigate Pruitt’s $43,000 Secure Phone Booth on bloombergpolitics.comCuba's President Raul Castro observes a monitor with he day's proceedings during the start of two-day session of the legislature, in Havana, Cuba, Wednesday, April 18, 2018. Cuba's legislature opened the two-day session that is to elect a successor to President Castro. (AP Photo/Ramon Espinosa)

HAVANA (AP) — The Cuban government on Wednesday selected 57-year-old First Vice President Miguel Mario Diaz-Canel Bermudez as the sole candidate to succeed President Raul Castro in a transition aimed at ensuring that the country's single-party system outlasts the aging revolutionaries who created it.

The certain approval of Diaz-Canel by members of the unfailingly unanimous National Assembly will install someone from outside the Castro family in the country's highest government office for the first time in nearly six decades.

The 86-year-old Castro will remain head of the Communist Party, designated by the constitution as "the superior guiding force of society and the state." As a result, Castro will remain the most powerful person in Cuba for the time being. His departure from the presidency is nonetheless a symbolically charged moment for a country accustomed to 60 years of absolute rule first by revolutionary leader Fidel Castro and, for the last decade, his younger brother.

Facing biological reality but still active and apparently healthy, Raul Castro is stepping down as president in an effort to guarantee that new leaders can maintain the government's grip on power in the face of economic stagnation, an aging population and increasing disenchantment among younger generations.

"I like sticking with the ideas of President Fidel Castro because he did a lot for the people of Cuba, but we need rejuvenation, above all in the economy," said Melissa Mederos, a 21-year-old schoolteacher. "Diaz-Canel needs to work hard on the economy, because people need to live a little better."

Most Cubans know their first vice president as an uncharismatic figure who until recently maintained a public profile so low it was virtually nonexistent. That image changed slightly this year as state media placed an increasing spotlight on Diaz-Canel's public appearances, including remarks to the press last month that included his promise to make Cuba's government more responsive to its people.

"We're building a relationship between the government and the people here," he said then after casting a ballot for members of the National Assembly. "The lives of those who will be elected have to be focused on relating to the people, listening to the people, investigating their problems and encouraging debate."

Diaz-Canel gained prominence in central Villa Clara province as the top Communist Party official, a post equivalent to governor. There, people described him as a hard-working, modest-living technocrat dedicated to improving public services. He became higher education minister in 2009 before moving into the vice presidency.

In a video of a Communist Party meeting that inexplicably leaked to the public last year, Diaz-Canel expressed a series of orthodox positions that included somberly pledging to shutter some independent media and labeling some European embassies as outposts of foreign subversion.

But he has also defended academics and bloggers who became targets of hardliners, leading some to describe him a potential advocate for greater openness in a system intolerant of virtually any criticism or dissent. International observers and Cubans alike will be scrutinizing every move he makes after he officially takes office on Thursday.

Two years after taking over from his ailing brother in 2006, Castro launched a series of reforms that expanded Cuba's private sector to nearly 600,000 people and allowed citizens greater freedom to travel and access to information. He has failed to fix the generally unproductive and highly subsidized state-run businesses that, along with a Soviet-model bureaucracy, employ three of every four Cubans. State salaries average $30 a month, leaving workers struggling to feed their families, and often dependent on corruption or remittances from relatives overseas.

Castro's moves to open the economy have largely been frozen or reversed as soon as they began to generate conspicuous shows of wealth by the new entrepreneurial class in a country officially dedicated to equality among its citizens.

"I don't want to see a capitalist system, hopefully that doesn't come here, but we have to fix the economy," said Roberto Sanchez, a 41-year-old construction worker. "I'd like to have more opportunity, to buy a car, and have a few possessions."Former President George W. Bush said on Monday that he has “always felt” the United States should be tough in countering Russian President Vladimir Putin’s aggression.

“He’s a very smart tactician,” Bush said in an interview with Fox Business host Maria Bartiromo. “The problem is, his whole attitude on most issues is, ’I’m going to win and U.S. is going to lose.’”

“He is a very aggressive person who wants to reinstate Soviet influence,” Bush continued. “And therefore I always felt it was very important for the United States to be very forceful in dealing with Putin — not belligerent, but forceful.”

Bush’s comments come as President Trump is reportedly weighing new sanctions on Russia to respond to Moscow’s ongoing support of Syrian President Bashar Assad and his government’s chemical weapons attacks against the Syrian people. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said on Sunday that the administration was poised to impose fresh sanctions on Russia — which drew the ire of Trump, according to the New York Times.

Trump has long been criticized for his reluctance to publicly denounce Putin, fueling speculation, mostly among Democrats, that the Kremlin may have compromising information about him.

Bush refused to criticize Trump when asked whether he felt the United States is “being forceful enough” on Putin.

“I don’t know,” the former president said. “I’ve made it a point not to second-guess my successors. You know, we’ll just have to see.”

Bush did not always talk tough about Putin. In 2001, he praised the Russian leader after a meeting with him.

“I looked the man in the eye,” Bush said at the time. “I found him to be very straightforward and trustworthy. We had a very good dialogue. I was able to get a sense of his soul — a man deeply committed to his country and the best interests of his country.”

On Wednesday, he elaborated on those remarks.

“When I looked in his eyes and saw his soul, Russia was broke,” Bush said. “Short-term broke. And the price of oil goes up and then Putin changed.”

Bush was also asked to weigh in on global threats, including ISIS-inspired attacks on the United States.

“People are forgetting the lessons of 9/11,” Bush said. “And one of the major lessons of 9/11 is the human condition elsewhere matters to our national security.”

“It’s in our nation’s interests for women to be successful in the Middle East, for example, or for civil society to take hold,” he added. “Because it’s with civil society and people having a say in the future of their governments that the foundation for peace is laid.”

Former President George W. Bush and former first lady Laura Bush are interviewed at the George W. Bush Presidential Library in Dallas on Wednesday. (Photo: Brandon Wade/AP) More

The live interview was conducted from the George W. Bush Presidential Center in Dallas a day after the death of his mother, former first lady Barbara Bush, at her home in Houston. She was 92.

Bush said he visited his mother in the hospital on April 7, when he was able to say goodbye.

“We had a wonderful visit,” Bush said. “She was strong, lucid, funny. She and I were needling each other. The doctor came in, and she turned to the doctor and said, ‘You want to know why George W. is the way he is?’ And the doctor looked somewhat surprised, and she said, ‘Because I drank and smoked when I was pregnant with him.’”

“She had great faith,” he added. “She truly believes that there is an afterlife, that she will be wonderfully received in the arms of a loving God, and therefore did not fear death. As result of her soul being comforted on the deathbed, my soul is comforted.”

(Cover tile photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Brandon Wade/AP, Sergei Ilnitsky/Pool via Reuters)

Read more from Yahoo News:PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) — President Donald Trump is attempting to rewrite history on his rationale for firing James Comey as FBI director last year.

In a Wednesday morning tweet sent as Comey promotes his criticism-filled new book, Trump says he "was not fired because of the phony Russia investigation." But in an interview days after the sudden firing, Trump revealed that the probe into potential collusion during the 2016 campaign was on his mind at the time he made the decision.

The White House's initial explanation for Trump's decision was Comey's handling of the Clinton email investigation, and it released a memo from Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein justifying the decision. But two days after firing Comey, Trump undercut that rationale.

In the interview with NBC on May 11, 2017, Trump said, "In fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said, 'You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story.'"

Trump decided to fire Comey over the objections of his top advisers at the time, including chief of staff Reince Priebus and chief strategist Steve Bannon.

Comey's firing, and Trump's subsequent suggestion that the Russia investigation was a factor in the decision, led Rosenstein to appoint special counsel Robert Mueller to oversee the investigation. Mueller is now investigating the Comey firing as part of an investigation of potential obstruction by the president.

Appearing Wednesday on ABC's "The View," Comey said he doesn't know why Trump fired him. But he said the president's Wednesday tweet that Comey was not dismissed because of the "phony Russia investigation" illustrates a problem the former FBI director said he's been trying to highlight during his book-promotion tour.

"It matters that the president is not committed to the truth as a central American value," Comey said.

In an interview with ABC that aired Sunday, Comey said there is "certainly some evidence" that Trump had obstructed justice when Comey said the president pushed him to take a lenient stance toward former national security adviser Michael Flynn, who pleaded guilty last year to lying to the FBI about his contacts with Russia's ambassador to the United States.

____

AP Writer Darlene Superville contributed from Washington.After years behind bars at Kern Valley State Prison and the state lockup in Chino, Calif., Martin Leyva had grown accustomed to the brutal violence and volatility of prison life. Showing up for his first day of college following his release, on the other hand, was truly frightening.

Leyva got off the bus in 2007 at Santa Barbara City College, looked up at the buildings, but couldn’t bring himself to step onto the campus. Shaking, he turned around and returned to his sister’s house in the nearby town of Goleta.

“I was terrified. I never felt so out of place in my life,” Leyva, now 45, told Yahoo News. “When I got home, my niece asked me how it went. I told her I got too scared. Here’s a person who’s lived in prisons and jails for so long that that life became normal.”

During his childhood, Leyva’s family regularly moved between poor neighborhoods in the otherwise affluent city of Santa Barbara. Leyva lived in projects on the Lower West Side of town and is still known locally as “Martin from the West Side.” With no male role model in the home, he turned to the streets for affirmation, but a life of crime and multiple drug and robbery arrests soon found him cycling through juvenile hall, county jail and prison. He dropped out of high school in the ninth grade but got his GED by doing work packets from inside Santa Barbara County Jail.

In some ways it took going to prison for him to realize that he didn’t belong there.

“I met a couple of elders who were different. They would say stuff like, ‘When you get out of prison, stay out of prison. You don’t belong.’ One of my elders said, ‘Get out and help the people.’ I don’t know what he meant, but I really took it to heart this time. Something completely shifted inside of me,” Leyva said.

After leaving prison for the last time at 34, Leyva’s main goals were to stay out of prison, get a job and provide for his two daughters. But like so many young men who grew up on the street, he didn’t know how to make an honest living. That’s when his niece suggested he give college a shot.

“My niece saved my life. She said, ‘I’m going to take you myself to the school.’ We went the next day. She showed me what was going on there. So many things that can be so intimidating,” Leyva said.

Several Santa Barbara City College professors helped foster his love of learning. Leyva, who identifies as Chicano, began to understand his own incarceration in the context of a larger societal trend that was landing minority men in jail. He thrived academically and went on to earn a bachelor’s degree in psychology at Antioch University in Santa Barbara. Now he’s living in the San Diego area and is on track to earn a master’s degree in sociology this spring from California State University San Marcos. He intends to apply to PhD programs next year.

Leyva, who has spent years in prison, is on track to get a master’s degree in sociology this spring from California State University San Marcos. He credits education with turning his life around: “We don’t let our past crimes define our progress moving forward in life.” (Photo: Sandy Huffaker for Yahoo News) More

“The interesting thing about going to college for someone like me is that my story is not unique,” Leyva said. “For the last 10 years I’ve been working with a lot of formerly incarcerated individuals. It’s across the board.”

Indeed, Leyva’s turnaround is hardly unique in California. The Stanford Criminal Justice Center and the Opportunity Institute released a report last month showing that the state was able to change the prospects for thousands of current and former inmates dramatically through access to higher education.

According to the Stanford report, nearly 4,500 inmates were enrolled in face-to-face community college classes in the fall of 2017 — more than in any other state. Hundreds more were waiting to enroll. But the move to educate prisoners is also new to California. Just three years ago, there wasn’t a single inmate enrolled in a face-to-face community college class inside the state prison system.

The recent push to reform California’s criminal justice system is helping to counteract specific policies that caused the prison population to balloon in the ’90s. Originally enacted in 1994, California’s Three Strikes sentencing law required that a defendant of any new felony with one previous serious felony conviction be sent to state prison for double the sentence the crime would otherwise receive. If the defendant had two or more prior felony convictions, he or she would receive a state prison sentence of 25 years to life. This law exploded the prison population and is widely seen today as a major mistake.Fresno State University is distancing the school from a professor who celebrated the death of former first lady Barbara Bush as it reviews the matter, officials said Wednesday.

“Randa Jarrar, a Fresno State English professor, made deeply disrespectful statements on her personal Twitter account,” Lynnette Zelezny, vice president of academic affairs at Fresno State, told reporters at a press briefing. “Understandably, many people are very concerned and upset about the nature of Professor Jarrar’s personal comments. Please know the university is taking this matter very seriously and the incident is under review.”

Zelezny declined to say whether the school intends to fire Jarrar.

“The university is a public institution and must follow certain specific procedures in addressing personnel matters,” she said.

According to Zelezny, Jarrar had taken a personal leave of absence and was not teaching classes this semester. Jarrar did not immediately return a request for comment.

On Tuesday night after news of Bush’s passing broke, Jarrar took to Twitter, apparently angry about the outpouring of tributes to the former first lady.

“Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal,” Jarrar tweeted. “F*** outta here with your nice words,” she wrote.

“I’m happy the witch is dead,” Jarrar continued. “Can’t wait for the rest of her family to fall to their demise the way 1.5 million iraqis have.”

She added: “All the hate I’m getting ALMOST made me forget how happy I am that George W. Bush is probably really sad right now.”

Jarrar’s Twitter account was later set to private. But her tweets, captured in screengrabs, continued to fuel outrage.

In response to one critic who warned that her tweets could lead to her losing work, Jarrar bragged: “I work as a tenured professor. I make 100K a year doing that. I will never be fired.”

Fresno State President Joseph Castro issued a statement late Tuesday condemning Jarrar’s comments, emphasizing that they were “made as a private citizen, not as a representative of Fresno State.”

Castro added: “Professor Jarrar’s expressed personal views and commentary are obviously contrary to the core values of our university, which include respect and empathy for individuals with divergent points of view, and a sincere commitment to mutual understanding and progress.”

According to her biography on the school’s website, Jarrar is an Arab-American who grew up in Kuwait and Egypt, and moved to the U.S. after the Gulf War. She was hired by Fresno State in 2010.

Her Twitter bio now includes a link to an Inside Higher Education article that argues “academic freedom means that both faculty members and students can engage in intellectual debate without fear of censorship or retaliation.”

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: Getty Images)Months after the city of Memphis circumvented state law to take down two statues honoring the Confederacy, Tennessee’s Republican-led legislature is punishing the city by stripping funding for its planned bicentennial celebration.

The Tennessee House voted Tuesday to remove $250,000 that had been earmarked for festivities to commemorate the city’s founding in 1819. Legislators who supported the moved explicitly linked it to the removal of the Confederate monuments, which took place after dark, with no official announcement, on Dec. 20.

“What this amendment does is it removes $250,000 from the budget that is designated to go to the city of Memphis for their bicentennial celebration,” said state Rep. Steve McDaniel, a Republican who sponsored the bill, on the House floor. “If you recall, back in December, Memphis did something that removed historical markers in the city. It was the city of Memphis that did this, and it was full knowing it was not the will of the legislature.”

“Today is a demonstration that bad actions have bad consequences, and my only regret about this is it’s not in the tune of millions of dollars,” added GOP Rep. Andy Holt. He compared Memphis’s move to ISIS’s attempts to “erase history” and said cities shouldn’t be allowed to skirt state laws if they don’t like them.

The alleged “bad actions” by the Memphis mayor and city council used some creative legal maneuvers to get around a 2013 state law, the Tennessee Heritage Protection Act, which required local governments to get approval from the state historical commission to remove statues from public property. Unable to get permission to take down monuments to Confederate Gen. Nathaniel Bedford Forrest and Confederate President Jefferson Davis, the city sold the land on which the statues stood to a nonprofit, which then took the statues down.

While the Memphis nonprofit moved the statues to an undisclosed location with the intent of transferring them to a historical society or Confederate memorial site, Holt said he stuck by the reference to the Islamic State as he felt both groups were trying to “eliminate” history.

“My comparison to ISIS is not to say that these folks are terrorists or extremists or whatever else,” said Holt in an interview with Yahoo News, “it’s simply to say the removal of historical documents, the removal of historical markers is characteristic of what ISIS has done.”

A session of the Tennessee House of Representatives in Nashville. (Photo: Mark Humphrey/AP) More

“It’s racist, it’s vindictive, it’s mean-spirited, it’s embarrassing,” said Rep. Antonio Parkinson, a Democrat who represents Memphis, of the amendment. Parkinson was booed on the floor Tuesday for calling the amendment racist, an action he told Yahoo News he considers to be a “badge of honor.”

The vote wasn’t the first attempt by the state legislature to punish Memphis for its actions. Earlier this year a bill was proposed that would have made it a felony for local officials to vote to remove statues using the same legal maneuver. Last month the Republican supermajority recalled a resolution that had honored Tami Sawyer, the leading activist for the anti-Confederate statue movement. There have also been attempts to strengthen the Protection Act and to make it legal for the state to take possession of monuments “in jeopardy of loss, destruction or exploitation.”

The main target in Memphis was the century-old Forrest statue overlooking one of the city’s main thoroughfares. Forrest was a swashbuckling Confederate cavalryman who became a Southern icon — the namesake of the fictional Forrest Gump — but a statue honoring him was deemed offensive by Memphis, whose population is mostly African-American. Before the Civil War Forrest was a slave trader, running the Negro Mart downtown. During it he was questioned for war crimes after troops under his command allegedly massacred black Union troops who were attempting to surrender at Fort Pillow. After the war, he was the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan.Within minutes of the news that former first lady Barbara Bush had died Tuesday at the age of 92, tributes began pouring in from political figures, including those in her own family.

George H.W. Bush, her husband of 73 years, issued a statement that praised his wife as a “proponent of family literacy,” and noted that she is survived by 5 children, 17 grandchildren, 7 great grandchildren and a brother.

In a written statement released by the White House, President Trump and first lady Melania Trump said they “join the nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush.”

“As a wife, mother, grandmother, military spouse, and former First Lady, Mrs. Bush was an advocate of the American family,” the statement read. “Amongst her greatest achievements was recognizing the importance of literacy as a fundamental family value that requires nurturing and protection. She will be long remembered for her strong devotion to country and family, both of which she served unfailingly well. The President and First Lady’s thoughts and prayers are with the friends and family of Mrs. Bush.”

Former president Obama and his wife, Michelle, issued a statement calling Bush “the rock of a family dedicated to public service.

“We’ll always be grateful to Mrs. Bush for the generosity she showed to us throughout our time in the White House, but we’re even more grateful for the way she lived her life — as a testament to the fact that public service is an important and noble calling; as an example of the humility and decency that reflects the very best of the American spirit. She’ll be remembered for passing these values on to her children, her grandchildren, her great-grandchildren — and to the countless citizens whom she and George inspired to become ‘points of light’ in service to others.”

Slideshow: Barbara Bush: A life in pictures >>>

Former first lady Barbara Bush. (Photo: J. Scott Applewhite/AP) More

Bill and HIllary Clinton also paid tribute to Mrs. Bush, calling her “a remarkable woman.”

“She had grit and grace, brains and beauty. She was fierce and feisty in support of her family and friends, her country and her causes. She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like,” the Clintons said in a written statement.

George W. Bush, the 43rd president, mourned his mother’s passing and honored her legacy.

“My dear mother has passed on at age 92. Laura, Barbara, Jenna, and I are sad, but our souls are settled because we know hers was,” the former president said in a written statement. “Barbara Bush was a fabulous First Lady and a woman unlike any other who brought levity, love, and literacy to millions. To us, she was so much more. Mom kept us on our toes and kept us laughing until the end. I’m a lucky man that Barbara Bush was my mother. Our family will miss her dearly, and we thank you all for your prayers and good wishes.”

Jeb Bush thanked those who had wished his family well as news of his mother’s failing health became public.

“Columba and I join every member of the Bush family in offering our sincere gratitude for the outpouring of love and support for my Mom in recent days, and throughout her remarkable life,” the former Florida governor said in a message posted to Facebook. “I’m exceptionally privileged to be the son of George Bush and the exceptionally gracious, gregarious, fun, funny, loving, tough, smart, graceful woman who was the force of nature known as Barbara Bush. Thank you for your prayers, and we look forward to celebrating and honoring her life and contributions to our family and great nation in the coming days.”

While dozens of tributes from politicians rolled in from around the country, there were also remembrances from those outside the political spectrum whose lives Mrs. Bush touched. One came from the Texas Rangers, the professional baseball team in which the Bush family held an ownership stake from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s.

Our thoughts are with the Bush family as they grieve the loss of former first lady Barbara. She will forever be in our hearts. pic.twitter.com/b4EE4s2fIu — Texas Rangers (@Rangers) April 18, 2018

Read more from Yahoo News:She was born to privilege, as the daughter of a successful businessman from an old Yankee family, and married into still more privilege, to the son of a United States senator. But life held even greater triumphs — and a measure of tragedy — for Barbara Pierce, who dropped out of college to marry a dashing young Navy pilot named George H.W. Bush. In more than 70 years together, they moved dozens of times as her husband pursued his career as an oilman in California and Texas, and she bore him six children.

One of them — the second, a girl known as Robin — died in 1953, at the age of 3. But George’s whirlwind political career would carry them both to the heights of power and success. In 1981, Barbara Bush became second lady of the United States, and eight years later, first lady. In 2000, when her firstborn son, George W., was elected president, she became the second woman in American history (the first was Abigail Adams) to be both the wife and mother of a president. And if the 2016 election had turned out differently for her son Jeb, she might have added another presidential branch to her family tree. (Jerry Adler/Yahoo News)

Read: Barbara Bush, the ‘enforcer’ of a political dynasty, is dead by Holly Bailey >>>

See more news-related photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo’s Tumblr.Former first lady Barbara Bush, one of only two women in American history to have been both the wife and the mother of a U.S. president, died in her home in Houston on Tuesday at the age of 92.

She had been in declining health for some time and recently decided not to seek further treatment.

Known for her shock of white hair and trademark pearls, Barbara Bush was quickly branded the nation’s “grandmother in chief” when her husband, President George H.W. Bush, ascended to the White House in 1988. But her matronly appearance and polite disposition concealed a sharp tongue and devilish wit that she later became known for, as she increasingly stepped forward as her husband’s defender during his presidency and a rough-and-tumble reelection campaign that he ultimately lost to Bill Clinton.

While her husband was the linchpin of a multigenerational political dynasty, Bush provided much of the steel in the family. Forgoing a career of her own to take care of her kids and support her spouse’s political ambitions, she once said, “My career was my family.” She was of a generation where women were largely defined by their fathers and whom they married, but as the times changed, so did she, gradually showing more of the strong personality that led her kids to lovingly describe her as “the enforcer.”

Born Barbara Pierce, she was raised in the tony New York City suburb of Rye, the third of four daughters born to Pauline and Marvin Pierce, a prominent magazine publisher whose titles included McCall’s, one of the first publications aimed at women.

Barbara Pierce, the future Barbara Bush, is shown in her graduation photo from Ashley Hall, a finishing school in Charleston, S.C., in 1943. (Photo: AP) More

Slideshow: Barbara Bush: A life in pictures >>>

Barbara was 16 and home on vacation from Ashley Hall, a posh South Carolina boarding school, when “the handsomest man I ever saw” approached her at a Christmas dance. George H.W. Bush, who introduced himself as Poppy, was a 17-year-old senior at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and lived in nearby Connecticut. He couldn’t waltz, so the two sat and talked and “haven’t stopped talking since,” she later said. A year and a half later, as George prepared to head off to World War II, they became engaged, and in 1945, when he was on leave from his assignment flying bombing missions over the Pacific, they wed. “I married the first boy I ever kissed,” she said.

Just 19, Barbara dropped out of Smith College and followed her husband on what would become a storied career taking him from the East Coast to West Texas and overseas. She was an eager partner in her husband’s career, which took her to environments far removed from her prim upbringing, like Midland, Texas — an oil town that would become as important in Bush family lore as Kennebunkport, Maine, home of the family’s seaside retreat. Along the way, the couple would raise four sons — George W., Jeb, Neil and Marvin — and a daughter, Dorothy.

But the Bushes also suffered terrible loss. In 1953, just a few months after their son Jeb was born, their second child, Robin, was diagnosed with leukemia — a disease for which there were few treatments at the time. The girl died two months before her fourth birthday, an ordeal that sent 28-year-old Barbara into depression and caused her reddish-brown hair to turn white, something she concealed for years using hair dye.

Struggling to overcome her grief, Barbara relied heavily on her husband and eldest son, George W., until one day when she heard her son tell a friend he couldn’t play because his mother needed him. “That started my cure,” she told her husband’s biographer Jon Meacham. “I realized I was too much of a burden for a little 7-year-old boy to carry.”FBI Director James Comey threatened to call for a special prosecutor to investigate Hillary Clinton’s email server in the spring of 2016, after Clinton’s lawyers refused on the grounds of attorney-client privilege to turn over their laptops for examination by the bureau’s agents.

The hard line taken by Clinton’s legal team made Justice Department lawyers “very nervous” and cast a “chill” in relations between the DOJ and the FBI at a critical moment in the politically charged case, Comey writes in his book, “A Higher Loyalty,” which was released Tuesday.

The new details about the laptop dispute — including Comey’s previously undisclosed threat to request a special counsel over the issue — takes on fresh relevance in light of the current dispute over whether the government seizure of documents from Michael Cohen, President Trump’s personal lawyer, infringes on attorney-client privilege.

As Comey recounts it in his book, he was adamant the bureau get access to the lawyers’ laptops to complete its investigation into Clinton’s email server. The reason: the FBI needed to determine how Clinton’s lawyers determined which of the 60,000 emails on her private server were “personal” before they turned over the remaining government-related emails to the State Department.

Although Clinton’s lawyers insisted they made the deletions in good faith, “we weren’t just going to take their word for it,” Comey writes. “We needed to know firsthand how the lawyers made those decisions and we wanted to see the devices they used so our experts could look for traces of the deleted emails.”

But, Comey writes, Beth Wilkinson, the veteran Washington defense lawyer who represented Clinton’s lawyers, started “talking tough” to Justice Department officials. She told them there was “no way” she would turn over laptops that contained clients’ privileged communications, some of which were unrelated to Hillary Clinton. (Wilkinson did not immediately respond to an email request for comment by Yahoo News, saying she had not yet seen the book.)

When Justice Department lawyers failed to back up the FBI, the investigation into Clinton’s private email server nearly blew up, according to Comey.

“We were at an impasse,” Comey writes. “The FBI could not, with a straight face, tell the American people we had done a competent investigation if we didn’t move heaven and earth to understand that email review and deletion process. It didn’t matter to us that it involved her lawyers. I would not agree to complete the investigation without seeing those laptops and interviewing those lawyers. Period. If Secretary Clinton wanted to still be under criminal investigation for the next two years, fine.”

In Comey’s account, the laptop dispute nearly derailed the Clinton investigation on the eve of the former secretary of state’s expected nomination as the Democratic candidate for president.

That May, Comey went to then Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates and made a threat that would have caused the issue to erupt into public view. He told her, “I was close to the point where I was going to recommend the appointment of a special prosecutor,” Comey writes. “I said that soon it would be too late for this Department of Justice to complete the investigation without grievous damage to public faith in our work. It would require a prosecutor outside the control of the political leadership of the department. I didn’t know the date I would recommend such a thing, I said, but we were getting close, unless we got those laptops.”

Comey’s threat apparently worked: Almost immediately after he raised the issue of a special counsel, “junior lawyers” at the Justice Department were suddenly “hell-bent on getting those laptops” and a deal was worked giving them access to the computers.

What Comey doesn’t mention is that the deal also included limited immunity for Clinton’s lawyers, Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson — a concession that later drew criticism from Republican members of Congress.

Comey makes clear that, after reviewing the laptops, the FBI “found nothing” that changed its view that the case did not merit criminal prosecution of Clinton. But his lengthy recounting of the episode suggests it weighed heavily on him at two pivotal events during the campaign: his July 5 announcement (made without consulting Justice Department lawyers) that the FBI would not recommend pursuing charges against Clinton but that he viewed her handling of classified emails as “extremely careless,” and his Oct. 28 letter informing Congress that the bureau had found additional Clinton emails on the laptop of former Rep. Anthony Weiner, husband of Clinton’s personal aide, Huma Abedin.

Clinton has said she believes the October letter probably cost her the election.

_____

Read more from Yahoo News:James Comey’s book tour began in earnest on Tuesday with the former FBI director scheduled for no less than eight high-profile interviews to promote his much-anticipated memoir, “A Higher Loyalty,” over the next three days.

Comey appeared live Tuesday on ABC’s “Good Morning America,” where he sat down with George Stephanapoulos for the second time in less than a week. (Stephanapoulos interviewed Comey last week at the former FBI director’s home in Virginia for a primetime special that aired Sunday night.) Comey appeared on “GMA” for a town-hall style forum in front of a live studio audience in Times Square.

The former FBI director also gave an interview that aired on NPR’s “Morning Edition” on Tuesday. He will appear later on NPR’s “Fresh Air.”

Fox News, whose leading personalities have savaged Comey and his book, will have him on next week.

The latest interviews produced no new revelations about Comey’s interactions with President Trump before his firing, but they gave Comey a chance to respond to Trump’s flurry of combative tweets about him — including the president’s suggestion that Comey ought to be jailed.

“That is not normal,” Comey said on “GMA.” “That is not OK. First of all, he’s just making stuff up. But, most importantly, the president of the United States is calling for the imprisonment of a private citizen, as he’s done for a whole lot of people who criticize him. That is not acceptable in this country.”

“I hope people read the book and see why the rule of law is such an important value in this country,” Comey continued. “And key to that is that the president doesn’t get to decide who goes to jail.”

Comey said Trump’s early-morning tweetstorms pose a danger to the American public.

“We’re numb to it,” he said. “We wake up in the morning and see the president of the United States is accusing people of crimes without evidence and pronouncing them guilty and saying they should be in jail. That should wake all of us up with a start, but there’s been so much of it that we’re a little bit numb, and that’s dangerous.”

On Tuesday night, Comey will appear on CBS’s “Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” On Wednesday morning, he’ll be on ABC’s “The View.” On Thursday, he’ll appear on CNN’s “The Lead With Jake Tapper” and MSNBC’s “Rachel Maddow Show.” Between the cable news hits, Comey will sit down with David Remnick for a taping of “The New Yorker Radio Hour” before a live audience at Town Hall in Manhattan.

Comey will also take part in a CNN town hall on April 25, followed by an interview with Fox News’ Bret Baier the next day.

Related: Why Comey doesn’t want Trump impeached

Perhaps anticipating an onset of Comey fatigue, CNN promoted Tapper’s interview to viewers this way: “You have heard from James Comey, but you haven’t heard him answer Jake Tapper’s questions.”

Trump, who castigated Comey on Twitter ahead of the book tour, has not tweeted about his former FBI director since Sunday.

On “Fox & Friends” — the president’s favorite morning show — co-host Steve Doocy mocked ABC’s “breathless” promotion of its Sunday night Comey special, gleefully noting that it drew fewer viewers than the Country Music Awards telecast on CBS and ABC’s reboot of “Roseanne.”

Comey’s book, though, is already at the top of Amazon’s bestseller list. And its publisher, Macmillan, said earlier this week that it was printing 850,000 copies of “A Higher Loyalty” to meet the expected demand.

Read more from Yahoo News:The Democratic committee man from Michigan had something to say about punctuation.

“At the end of that paragraph,” said Barry Goodman, a member of the DNC’s rules and bylaws committee, “the P for public should be capitalized if party is capitalized with a P.”

DNC members were slogging through the tedious work of refining a public statement at their March 8 meeting in Washington, D.C. Goodman, a personal injury lawyer from Detroit, wanted to make sure that both words were capitalized “just so we don’t look like public and party are different in terms of importance.”

Goodman meant well, but his sentiments revealed a common but profound misunderstanding about American politics. Most people think of political parties as powerful, when in fact they have been losing power for 50 years.

Populism is popular these days, and many Americans like Goodman want to make the political system more fair. They want to empower the average voter and reduce the influence of the wealthiest. But it’s become increasingly clear to many that anti-party reforms have gone too far and are now having a multitude of negative impacts on our politics, even as idealists push for still more reductions of party power.

“We like to believe that the fate of a government lies in the hands of its citizens. If the people hold democratic values, democracy will be safe,” write Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt, authors of the recent book, “How Democracies Die.”

“This view is wrong,” the Harvard government professors write. “What matters more is whether political elites, and especially parties, serve as filters. Put simply, political parties are democracy’s gatekeepers.”

The anti-party attitude, which is explored in depth in the Yahoo News podcast “The Long Game,” is not exclusive to the left. Donald Trump and his supporters are just as anti-establishment, anti-elite and disdainful of political parties as many Democrats. The loud complaints on the left about party interventions in House primaries in 2018 come from the same sheet music that Trump sang from in 2016 when he criticized the idea of convention delegates and a “rigged” system.

And this anti-party sentiment draws from the same well that produces a disregard for institutions and norms, a big theme of former FBI Director James Comey’s warnings about Trump in his newly released book.

These attitudes reveal one of two things. People either don’t realize how much parties have been weakened over the last half-century, or they are ignorant of the evidence that ineffectual parties put democracy on a path toward instability and even authoritarianism.

But current party leaders also seem to lack this historical perspective. Former RNC chairman Reince Priebus did nothing to unite the GOP around an alternative to Trump in 2016. And now, DNC chairman Tom Perez is fully on board with weakening the power of the Democratic Party by reducing the number of superdelegates in the presidential primary. Perez spoke briefly at the beginning of the March 8 meeting, praising the group for its work. He talked of “rebuilding trust” after the 2016 primary, in which Bernie Sanders supporters complained that the DNC tilted the playing field in favor of Hillary Clinton.

“I’m confident that what’s going to come out of this is a bold report that addresses the compelling need for reform,” Perez said.

Perez’s sentiments are the norm. But the ongoing process of diminishing the power of parties is actually endangering democracy, according to a growing number of experts and political observers.

Democrats are resisting empowering their own party officials as they head into the 2018 midterms and toward a 2020 showdown with President Trump. The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has made moves to help congressional candidates in Democratic primaries who it felt had the best chance of beating a Republican opponent. This has sparked howls of outrage.

This attitude could leave Democrats vulnerable to a presidential primary in 2020 that splits the moderate vote among a number of establishment candidates and opens a path for a demagogue of the left.

“The unforeseen consequences are that it … increases the possibility that the Democrats get their own Trump,” Levitsky told Yahoo News.

Or else a nominee who appeals to hardcore liberal progressives but who cannot beat Trump, giving him another four years in office.

Download or subscribe on iTunes: ‘The Long Game” by Yahoo News

****

In the 1968 Democratic primary, Eugene McCarthy got 3 million votes, Bobby Kennedy got 2 million, and Hubert Humphrey didn’t run in any primaries, and received only 110,000 votes as a result. Yet Humphrey was the nominee. Party bosses picked him over McCarthy at the convention (Kennedy was assassinated before the convention took place).

During the 2012 Republican primary, I got an education on how the delegate system worked in most states. I saw there were effectively two different primaries. Voters went to the polls and many of them thought that was it. But there was still a delegate process in place that required candidates to recruit supporters and organize to get them elected at three successive conventions, usually starting at the precinct level, then up to the county, then at the state convention the delegates to the national convention would be elected. Most people have no idea this system exists.

At first I was puzzled by how complicated the delegate world was. But upon reflection, I saw how that kind of organization could only be built by candidates who appealed to a broad swath of some of the most active, engaged and informed voters in each party. A demagogue who had lots of money and fame, but not much credibility or qualifications, could build a different kind of popular support through TV and social media exposure. But most party regulars would see through that type of candidate, and charlatans wouldn’t be able to build a credible delegate operation.

This remained true in 2016, when Trump arrived in Cleveland for a convention largely composed of delegates who had been recruited by other candidates. When I recently asked one of the most authoritative Republican rules experts, an attorney, what the chances were that the GOP convention delegates would have chosen someone other than Trump if they’d been freed to vote their preference, this person answered bluntly: Trump had a 99 percent chance of being replaced in that scenario, he said.

Parties are the best vehicle to sustain a set of beliefs. They outlast individuals, and they are built to perpetuate a general political point of view through the work of everyday people. “They are the only long-standing, durable actors in American politics. Individuals, politicians, movements all come and go, but the parties stay with us, and that’s what institutions do when they work is they transmit values from generation to generation,” said Jonathan Rauch, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.

People don’t believe in parties partly because the whole notion of establishment, hierarchical authority has been discredited. Anti-establishment thinking has been one of the most constant and dominant trends of the last half-century. Seismic failures like the Vietnam War and Watergate, then the Iraq War, the Catholic church scandal and the 2008 economic collapse have created cynicism and anger.

And technology has played a big role. TV and the internet have both undermined the value of expertise and elevated the place of image and emotion in public discourse.

Additionally, American culture has become so individualistic that most people probably couldn’t even describe what an institution is, or what they’re good for. Yet if and when they work properly, institutions do two basic things: They protect us, and they propel us.

Institutions can protect us from the abuse of power by giving us a structure to work through, and to appeal to, when there are abuses. They are supposed to prevent authority from being concentrated too narrowly. Conversely, they also protect us from chaos by preventing authority from being dispersed too broadly.

Institutions can propel us to do and accomplish things we could never do on our own. They enable people to come together and act in a cohesive and coherent way. This kind of collective accomplishment does require lines of authority and for some people’s opinions to ultimately matter more than others. But it’s a balance between the extremes of everyone having an equal say (think Occupy Wall Street) and one person deciding everything (think dictatorship).

Yuval Levin, editor of National Affairs magazine, noted that when institutions work properly, they also shape our character.

“Individualism is essential to freedom. I think it’s a wonderful thing,” he said. “But … we are not born ready to be individualists. To make use of our freedom in ways that are constructive … requires a person who is formed in a certain way to be able to use our freedom responsibly.”

“Our institutions turn us into human beings who are capable of being free men and women, who will choose to do the right thing, generally speaking, and so can be left free to choose, and don’t have to be coerced into being responsible,” Levin said.

But while all institutions can play a formative role, some do so in a more positive way than others. For example, the worlds of television and New York real estate shape an individual in a much different way than do the institutions of politics, government, law and the university.

Donald Trump is the first president to enter the presidency without being molded by the institutions and cultures that have shaped the character of every other president in American history.

And Trump illustrates the change in the way that many people now view institutions, not as something bigger than themselves, but as something to make themselves bigger. “We’ve come to think about institutions more and more as ways of providing platforms for individuals to be themselves, rather than creating molds that form individuals to be reliable and trustworthy,” Levin said.

To Trump, the presidency is not an office to be respected and preserved. Rather, it is a role to be played, with the goal being his own self-promotion, rather than service to the country and its citizens, Levin said.

“The presidency is part of a larger constitutional system, and it’s really when you take the shape of that office within that system that you become most powerful,” Levin said. “He’s playing this role that’s not the role of the president. That leaves the rest of the system missing the president. … But it also means everybody has to deal with this other thing at the heart of the system, which is just a kind of performance artist doing something else.”

****

The changes to party primaries after the 1968 election took power away from party bosses and put it in the hands of regular voters. The changes were “well intentioned, but it took that power away from party regulars,” Rauch said. “So they’re no longer in a position to say, ‘If you’ll vote for me on this tough bill, this debt limit bill, I’m gonna help make sure there’s not a primary challenge in your district.’ Parties are no longer able to protect their people on the tough votes so that means it’s every person for themselves. That means [former House Speaker John] Boehner’s in a situation where he can’t go to someone and say, Look, help me with this deal, I’ll make sure you get some help in the election.”

Congress has also enacted reforms — like eliminating earmarks — that have reduced its own ability to achieve compromise and pass legislation. Congressional leaders are far less able to corral votes than in the past.

And so — despite the widespread belief in an all-powerful establishment — the political system is increasingly out of control, creating a negative feedback loop. People blame dysfunction on the establishment and call for more reform. The reform further weakens the ability of parties and party leaders and increases dysfunction and chaos. And public outrage grows, leading to calls for more reform.

Parties make it possible for politicians to deliver on the promises they make during campaigns. But they also can shape those promises and keep them from getting out of touch with reality. Trump’s promise to build a wall and make Mexico pay for it would have been one of the countless things a strong party would have pointed to as evidence Trump was not a serious candidate for president. But now that he is in office, his supporters are likely to be even more disillusioned and angry if the promise isn’t fulfilled.

But Trump, or any politician who doesn’t fulfill an outlandish promise, can always blame “the establishment,” and many voters will eagerly agree.

“You go from the deficiencies in the nomination system, to the myths that then dominate modern elections, to a government that then doesn’t deliver on those myths, and then a public that gets more and more unhappy about government,” said Elaine Kamarck of the Brookings Institution. “That}s not the case when you have powerful intermediaries.”

“What you have is you have presidents, governors coming in without the institutional backing of a political party. Surprise, surprise, they can’t get anything done. When politicians can’t get anything done, it breeds distrust. It breeds anger,” Kamarck said. “The weakening of parties has meant the weakening of government. People don’t like that, but very few people see the connection between political parties and government.”

Kamarck, one of the leading experts on primary politics and an influential DNC member, has proposed a new pre-primary process through which a party could signal to its members who it finds acceptable and who is not. That could take place through a convention that precedes the primary elections, or through a requirement that party elders make endorsements before voters start going to the polls. The party could even decide that candidates who did not receive a certain percentage of a pre-primary convention vote would not be on the ballot.

Of course, the objection many raise is that this would be undemocratic. But parties are private organizations. They aren’t obligated by the Constitution or the law to run their candidate selection process a certain way.

****

Rauch argues that a less directly democratic system, with stronger parties, would represent more people rather than less.

“The paradox of populism [is] if you have an election, not everyone turns up, and the factions that do turn up are gonna be the most motivated, or they’re gonna be the elites, or they’re gonna be the people who know how to manipulate the system,” Rauch said. “And so what’s really gonna happen is you’re gonna get narrow factions which are going to predominate.”

“You have to have a hybrid system. Yes, you have to have elections and direct participation. That’s essential to provide a check on government and a reality test. But you also need people who are there for the long term. You need experts and professionals, career politicians who will be around, who will be able to look at all this, and look around and say OK, who is not represented in that primary election?” he said.

The United States Constitution created a “hybrid system.” The House of Representatives was directly democratic, with voters picking candidates every two years. But the Senate was much more removed from the people. At the founding, senators were elected by state legislatures, not voters. This changed in 1913 with the ratification of the 17th amendment. But senators still have longer terms to insulate them from the passions of the moment. This is intended to give them the ability to do things sometimes that may not be popular, but which might be needed, in the recognition that many voters have short memories.

And as Levitsky and Ziblatt explain in “How Democracies Die,” the Electoral College was originally designed to be a buffer between “the will of the people” and the presidency. But the rise of political parties in the early 1800s transferred the responsibility “to keep dangerous figures out of the White House” from the Electoral College to the parties.

In other words, the American Constitution created a “rigged system” in a positive sense. It was rigged to prevent too much power from being concentrated in the hands of one person, and it was also rigged to make sure “the people” did not have too much say over who would govern them.

Too often, Americans discuss the political system microscopically. Trump’s criticism of delegates ignored that whoever emerged from the party primary would have to compete in the general election, where the people’s votes — filtered through an electoral college that distributed power among all 50 states evenly — were the final word.

A system in which parties put presidential hopefuls through a rigorous process, where party insiders with political expertise were given a significant place of influence, would be a way for a party to then submit a candidate to the whole nation.

“Party leaders will always have vastly more information about candidates — their strengths and flaws, their ability to govern and work with Congress, their backing among various interest groups and coalitions — than voters and caucus goers do,” Seth Masket, chair of the political science department at the University of Denver, wrote in the New York Times recently. “That information is useful, even vital, to the task of picking a good nominee.”

Masket’s study of political reforms in a number of states has shown that reforms that have weakened parties and given voters more input have counterintuitively made politics more opaque and less democratic.

“Each attempt to drive parties from the political sphere exacts a price on democracy, decreasing transparency, accountability, and other things we claim to hold important in our governing systems,” he wrote in his book, “The Inevitable Party: Why Attempts to Kill the Party System Fail and How They Weaken Democracy.”

Parties, in fact, fill a gap between the realm of what there is to know about politics and what is actually known by voters.

“We know from a great deal of public opinion research that most voters do not follow politics closely,” he wrote. People are busy, they have jobs, responsibilities, children, hobbies, health concerns and the like. And for many, voting is not a big enough reward for all the work required to become truly expert about politics.

“They have little idea which legislator voted for which bill, calling into question the whole concept of elections as moments of accountability,” Masket wrote. “Parties, however, make such accountability possible. They serve as a convenient cue for voters, allowing them to make informed voting decisions.”

Parties, Masket wrote, are “the greatest instruments for organizing elections, turning out voters, running government, and developing policy ideas and seeing them enacted that we’ve ever produced.”

In December, Perez told Yahoo News that one of his two biggest goals for the 2020 election was that voters and candidates felt the Democratic primary was “fair.” What would that mean? “Nobody had a thumb on the scale,” he said.

In other words, Perez wants the party to be secondary, maybe even an afterthought, to how the party decides what ideas and policies it stands for. Voters will be the primary driver. The problem with this is that it makes it very hard for politicians to take unpopular stands that might be necessary in the long run, such as endorsing a need for painful fiscal reforms.

If the 2020 Democratic primary goes off the tracks, Perez and others in the Democratic Party will likely say that the voters expressed their will, and there’s nothing a party can do. But history shows that’s not the case.

_____

Read more from Yahoo News:NEW YORK — Even before Sean Hannity was named as the mystery “third client” of President Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen, the hearing over how to handle the evidence FBI agents seized from Cohen’s office and residences last week was a media circus, featuring the best-known adult actress in America and her omnipresent lawyer, fringe political candidates, and people who literally fell to the ground.

Before Cohen made his appearance, there was already a spectacle outside. Michael Avenatti, the lawyer for adult film star Stormy Daniels, was circling the federal district courthouse in Lower Manhattan, making as many as 10 circuits of the block.

Avenatti is now at least as recognizable as his client, who has said she had a sexual liaison with President Trump. The sight of him pacing the sidewalk prompted a frenzy of reporters and cameramen sprinting after him. One man somersaulted over a pile of garbage bags as he walked backward, peppering Avenatti with questions.

“We don’t want anybody having to find a lawyer or something,” Avenatti quipped, as the man struggled back onto his feet.

Daniels is suing Trump and Cohen to nullify a nondisclosure agreement she signed after receiving a $130,000 payment from Cohen in 2016. The agreement was designed to prevent Daniels from discussing her decade-ago relationship with Trump, who has denied knowing anything about the agreement between Daniels and Cohen.

Inside the courthouse, a long line of reporters waited for hours to get into Judge Kimba Wood’s courtroom, along with curious members of the public, including a long-shot congressional candidate from Manhattan’s Upper East Side named Peter Lindner. He handed out cards emblazoned with his campaign slogan (“For Pete’s Sake”) and key elements of his platform, including marijuana legalization.

Another man in the line said he was an attorney who skipped out of work to watch the proceedings.

“Does everyone in your office want to come to this?” one reporter asked him.

“Of course,” he said. “Who doesn’t want to be at this hearing?”

Court officers admitted people to the courtroom on the 21st floor in small groups. One woman who came to watch the trial became angry as press were let in first.

“I pay taxes and I’m a citizen!” she exclaimed.

Yahoo News managed to get a seat in the back, next to a man in a suit and Yankees cap. He opened up a briefcase that contained two unopened packs of Parliament Lights, a well-worn Bible, and a deck of playing cards. The man read from his Bible as he waited for the hearing to start.

Cohen came in about 20 minutes before the start of the hearing. After he sat down, one of his lawyers, Stephen Ryan, gave his back a reassuring rub.

Trump attorney Michael Cohen. (Photo: Mike Segar/Reuters) More

The hearing concerned a motion by Cohen to review the documents taken by the FBI before prosecutors see it. Lawyers for Trump and the president’s eponymous real estate company also appeared in support of the motion.

During the discussion, prosecutors pointed out that Cohen’s legal team would not disclose the name of one of his three clients. The judge ordered Cohen’s lawyers to reveal the identity of the mystery client. It was Fox News host Sean Hannity, which prompted gasps from the crowd. Although the nature of Cohen’s work for Hannity did not come up in the courtroom, the attorney is best-known for arranging hush-money payments between certain male clients and the women who claim to have had relations with them.

All electronic devices are banned in the courtroom. Yahoo News was among several members of the media who jumped up and sprinted outside to report on Hannity’s relationship with Cohen. Hannity has denied being Cohen’s client.

As the hearing drew to an end, the two imposing bodyguards accompanying Daniel and Avenatti huddled over how Daniels could exit the courtroom safely and make a public statement outside.NEW YORK — Michael Cohen’s mysterious third client, whose identity he tried to keep secret, has been revealed as Fox News host Sean Hannity.

Hannity’s name was disclosed in federal court in Manhattan on Monday afternoon on orders from U.S. District Court Judge Kimba Wood, eliciting gasps in the courtroom. Cohen’s legal work for President Trump and for a prominent Republican fundraiser, Elliott Broidy, involved payments to women to keep them quiet about sexual relationships.

It was not immediately clear what legal work Cohen did for Hannity, who tweeted:

“Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective.

“I assumed those conversations were confidential, but to be absolutely clear they never involved any matter between me and a third-party.”

Michael Cohen has never represented me in any matter. I never retained him, received an invoice, or paid legal fees. I have occasionally had brief discussions with him about legal questions about which I wanted his input and perspective. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

I assumed those conversations were confidential, but to be absolutely clear they never involved any matter between me and a third-party. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) April 16, 2018

Attorneys for Cohen and President Trump are trying to control access by prosecutors to documents and electronic devices that were seized in an April 9 FBI raid on Cohen’s home, office, and a hotel where he was staying. That raid was the result of a criminal investigation that involved Cohen’s personal business dealings and payments to two women on behalf of Trump.

Before revealing the client was Hannity, Cohen’s attorneys said it was “a publicly prominent individual” who was concerned about having his name released to the public and had specifically asked them to try to keep his name secret. One of Cohen’s lawyers told Wood he did not want to reveal the name of Cohen’s third client because “no one would want to be associated that they had been a client … in this way.” He did not specify exactly what he meant by that. Wood ultimately instructed Cohen’s team to reveal the name of his third client.

“Your honor, the client’s name that’s involved is Sean Hannity,” said one of Cohen’s lawyers.

Michael Cohen and Sean Hannity. (Photo illustration: Yahoo News; photos: Mary Altaffer/AP, Taylor Hill/WireImage via Getty Images) More

Hannity did not immediately respond to an email from Yahoo News asking what type of legal work Cohen did for him and why he was concerned about his name being released. Hannity has been a staunch defender of both Trump and Cohen on the airwaves.

In court on Monday, Cohen’s attorneys argued that he needs to review the documents taken in the raid, as they may contain privileged communications. If he is not allowed to review the documents, they proposed that a special master be appointed to examine the documents before prosecutors. As of this writing, the hearing is ongoing.

Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas McKay was the first to raise the issue of Cohen’s mysterious third client. He said Cohen’s failure to identify the person was an indication Cohen and his team would make an “inevitably overbroad claim of privilege” if they were allowed to review the documents seized in the raid.

“The continued resistance to provide the court with facts and names is just a preview of what would come if the court accepted Cohen’s proposal,” McKay said.

McKay also defended the raid against claims by Cohen’s team that it was an unreasonable search.

“The was nothing improper about the way the search warrant was executed,” McKay said.

McKay noted the warrant was executed because a judge found probable cause it could uncover evidence of a crime, and that it is typical of white-collar cases to involve searches that could include some privileged communications. The judge, he said, would have been aware of that possibility.President Donald Trump tweeted a tribute to former first lady Barbara Bush on Tuesday night, one that contained a glaring error.

His tweet about Bush, who died on Tuesday at 92, included a statement that was incorrectly dated April 17, 2017 — not 2018. Trump deleted the statement (which was released by the White House Office of the Press Secretary) two hours later, and substituted it with this post that had the date cropped out:

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4OW72iddQx

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Unsurprisingly, the blunder did not go unnoticed:

As President Trump celebrates how Barbara Bush emphasized the importance of literacy, the White House puts the wrong date on its statement. The year is 2018, not 2017. pic.twitter.com/31NEHBuJeo

— Matt Viser (@mviser) April 18, 2018

When you care so much that you can't even bother to have the correct year on an official White House statement. https://t.co/1efTrXHTmB

— Eugene V. Belitsky (@Jhenya_Belitsky) April 18, 2018

Donald Trump just posted a statement about the passing of Barbara Bush. It has the wrong year on it. Is there anything this idiot can’t screw up?

— Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) April 18, 2018

ATTENTION: Office of the Press Secretary we are in the year "2018"https://t.co/aSWM5KLA1h

— PatsGirl️]]>🧘

Video: Tributes Pour in for Former First Lady Barbara Bush

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.President Donald Trump tweeted a tribute to former first lady Barbara Bush on Tuesday night, one that contained a glaring error.

His tweet about Bush, who died on Tuesday at 92, included a statement that was incorrectly dated April 17, 2017 — not 2018. Trump deleted the statement (which was released by the White House Office of the Press Secretary) two hours later, and substituted it with this post that had the date cropped out:

.@FLOTUS Melania and I join the Nation in celebrating the life of Barbara Bush: pic.twitter.com/4OW72iddQx

— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Unsurprisingly, the blunder did not go unnoticed:

As President Trump celebrates how Barbara Bush emphasized the importance of literacy, the White House puts the wrong date on its statement. The year is 2018, not 2017. pic.twitter.com/31NEHBuJeo

— Matt Viser (@mviser) April 18, 2018

When you care so much that you can't even bother to have the correct year on an official White House statement. https://t.co/1efTrXHTmB

— Eugene V. Belitsky (@Jhenya_Belitsky) April 18, 2018

Donald Trump just posted a statement about the passing of Barbara Bush. It has the wrong year on it. Is there anything this idiot can’t screw up?

— Palmer Report (@PalmerReport) April 18, 2018

ATTENTION: Office of the Press Secretary we are in the year "2018"https://t.co/aSWM5KLA1h

— PatsGirl️]]>🧘

Video: Tributes Pour in for Former First Lady Barbara Bush

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.Any Republican Senator Not Conflicted Over Trump Is Comatose or Blind, Says Bob Corker

Republican members of the U.S. Senate who have not been “conflicted” over Donald Trump’s presidency are either in a coma or blind, according to outgoing Tennessee Senator Bob Corker on Wednesday.

Corker, who has been an outspoken critic of Trump, was asked by a reporter at the Christian Science Monitor breakfast if he would vote for the president again if given the chance.

“The right answer which I give to many people here every day in the hallway is ‘Responding to conjecture is bad for your health,’” Corker said. "Look, any Republican senator that hasn't been conflicted over this presidency is either comatose or is pretty useless in their blindness.

Trending: Since Parkland Shooting, NRA-Backed Bills Have Advanced in Large Numbers in State Legislatures

“And we got some of both, of course, not many.”

Still, Corker added praise for Trump over his accessibility.

“I have a very warm relationship with the president,” he said. “He’s very accessible, more accessible than any president probably in the history of the world. I mean he’s on the phone and available from six to 11 in the morning and from 6:30 till late at night.”

Don't miss: 'Yakuza 6' Clan Creator Guide: How to Unlock Okada and Other NJPW Wrestlers

Corker concluded that while he had a good relationship with Trump, it was still a “complicated relationship that anybody who’s thinking would have with the current administration.”

Corker, who chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is one of the currently 40 Republicans in Congress who are not seeking re-election in this year’s midterms. He has directly chastised Trump over policies, and also derided the president for his attacks on the FBI and Justice Department.

“I do not like the tearing down of institutions and I’ve shared that with him,” Corker said in response to another question. “Continual tearing down of institutions in order to inspire your base and keep yourself protected with your base, to me, is damaging to our nation."

Corker and Trump engaged in a public feud in the fall. The senator first said in October that White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, then Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis were the “people that help separate our country from chaos.”

Most popular: Alzheimer’s Disease Starts in Childhood, With Symptoms Found in Babies Less Than a Year Old, Study Shows

Trump fired back by stating on Twitter that Corker “didn’t have the guts to run!” for another term.





To which, Corker responded by stating the White House had “become an adult day care center.”

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekAny Republican Senator Not Conflicted Over Trump Is Comatose or Blind, Says Bob Corker

Republican members of the U.S. Senate who have not been “conflicted” over Donald Trump’s presidency are either in a coma or blind, according to outgoing Tennessee Senator Bob Corker on Wednesday.

Corker, who has been an outspoken critic of Trump, was asked by a reporter at the Christian Science Monitor breakfast if he would vote for the president again if given the chance.

“The right answer which I give to many people here every day in the hallway is ‘Responding to conjecture is bad for your health,’” Corker said. "Look, any Republican senator that hasn't been conflicted over this presidency is either comatose or is pretty useless in their blindness.

Trending: Since Parkland Shooting, NRA-Backed Bills Have Advanced in Large Numbers in State Legislatures

“And we got some of both, of course, not many.”

Still, Corker added praise for Trump over his accessibility.

“I have a very warm relationship with the president,” he said. “He’s very accessible, more accessible than any president probably in the history of the world. I mean he’s on the phone and available from six to 11 in the morning and from 6:30 till late at night.”

Don't miss: 'Yakuza 6' Clan Creator Guide: How to Unlock Okada and Other NJPW Wrestlers

Corker concluded that while he had a good relationship with Trump, it was still a “complicated relationship that anybody who’s thinking would have with the current administration.”

Corker, who chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is one of the currently 40 Republicans in Congress who are not seeking re-election in this year’s midterms. He has directly chastised Trump over policies, and also derided the president for his attacks on the FBI and Justice Department.

“I do not like the tearing down of institutions and I’ve shared that with him,” Corker said in response to another question. “Continual tearing down of institutions in order to inspire your base and keep yourself protected with your base, to me, is damaging to our nation."

Corker and Trump engaged in a public feud in the fall. The senator first said in October that White House Chief of Staff John Kelly, then Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis were the “people that help separate our country from chaos.”

Most popular: Alzheimer’s Disease Starts in Childhood, With Symptoms Found in Babies Less Than a Year Old, Study Shows

Trump fired back by stating on Twitter that Corker “didn’t have the guts to run!” for another term.





To which, Corker responded by stating the White House had “become an adult day care center.”

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekParkland student and gun legislation campaigner David Hogg has called for investors to boycott BlackRock Inc and The Vanguard Group, two of the world’s largest investment management companies, over their holdings in gun companies.

“[BlackRock] and [Vanguard] are two of the biggest investors in gun manufacturers; if you use them, feel free to let them know,” Hogg said Tuesday in a series of tweets, with the hashtags #BoycottVanguard and #BoycottBlackRock.

David Hogg More

Noam Galai/WireImage

Trending: Is America Ready to Vote for Oprah? | Opinion

Hogg is among the most prominent of a group of students who have led a national campaign for gun legislation reform in the wake of the February 14 shootings at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, in which 17 people were killed.





BlackRock and Vanguard are two of the largest managers of exchange traded funds, and are the biggest owners of publicly traded firearms manufacturers, including Storm Ruger and American Outdoor Brands.

Don't miss: Kyle Plush: Family of Teen Killed by Minivan Seat Storms out of Council Meeting Following Compensation Suggestion

Hogg led a boycott campaign against Fox News host Laura Ingraham after she mocked him on Twitter about his college admissions, leading to several companies cutting ties with her show, The Ingraham Angle. He has also called for boycotts of companies with ties to the National Rifle Association gun rights lobbying group, such as Hertz and FedEx.

BlackRock has said it will create new funds for investors who wish to avoid holding stocks in gun manufacturers. It has also said it will hold discussions with gun manufacturers about their businesses.

It declined to comment on Hogg's tweets.

Most popular: Trump’s Strikes on Syria Have Little To Do With Syria’s Ongoing Conflict | Opinion

A Vanguard spokesperson told CNN that most Vanguard funds "do not have exposure to gun manufacturers," and that 359 of its 388 funds do not directly invest in Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands or Vista Outdoor.

It also said that investors can put money in a social fund that excludes gun manufacturers.

"Importantly, Vanguard is taking action, meeting with the leaders of gun manufacturers and distributors," the company said in a statement. "We want to know how they will mitigate the risks that their products pose and how they plan to help prevent such tragedies from happening again."

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekParkland student and gun legislation campaigner David Hogg has called for investors to boycott BlackRock Inc and The Vanguard Group, two of the world’s largest investment management companies, over their holdings in gun companies.

“[BlackRock] and [Vanguard] are two of the biggest investors in gun manufacturers; if you use them, feel free to let them know,” Hogg said Tuesday in a series of tweets, with the hashtags #BoycottVanguard and #BoycottBlackRock.

David Hogg More

Noam Galai/WireImage

Trending: Is America Ready to Vote for Oprah? | Opinion

Hogg is among the most prominent of a group of students who have led a national campaign for gun legislation reform in the wake of the February 14 shootings at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, in which 17 people were killed.





BlackRock and Vanguard are two of the largest managers of exchange traded funds, and are the biggest owners of publicly traded firearms manufacturers, including Storm Ruger and American Outdoor Brands.

Don't miss: Kyle Plush: Family of Teen Killed by Minivan Seat Storms out of Council Meeting Following Compensation Suggestion

Hogg led a boycott campaign against Fox News host Laura Ingraham after she mocked him on Twitter about his college admissions, leading to several companies cutting ties with her show, The Ingraham Angle. He has also called for boycotts of companies with ties to the National Rifle Association gun rights lobbying group, such as Hertz and FedEx.

BlackRock has said it will create new funds for investors who wish to avoid holding stocks in gun manufacturers. It has also said it will hold discussions with gun manufacturers about their businesses.

It declined to comment on Hogg's tweets.

Most popular: Trump’s Strikes on Syria Have Little To Do With Syria’s Ongoing Conflict | Opinion

A Vanguard spokesperson told CNN that most Vanguard funds "do not have exposure to gun manufacturers," and that 359 of its 388 funds do not directly invest in Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands or Vista Outdoor.

It also said that investors can put money in a social fund that excludes gun manufacturers.

"Importantly, Vanguard is taking action, meeting with the leaders of gun manufacturers and distributors," the company said in a statement. "We want to know how they will mitigate the risks that their products pose and how they plan to help prevent such tragedies from happening again."

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekIsraelis attend a ceremony marking Israel's annual Memorial Day for fallen soldiers, in Tel Aviv, Israel, Tuesday, April 17, 2018. Israel marks the annual Memorial Day in remembrance of soldiers who died in the nation's conflicts, beginning at dusk Tuesday until Wednesday evening. (AP Photo/Oded Balilty)

JERUSALEM (AP) — Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday issued a veiled warning to Iran, saying in a Memorial Day speech that his country will defend itself against anyone that tries to harm it.

The premier's remarks on Israel's national day of mourning come amid rising tensions between Israel and Iran over an alleged Israeli airstrike targeting a Syrian air force base last week that left at least four Iranian military personnel dead.

Iran has threatened to retaliate, casting a shadow over Israel's celebration of its 70-year Independence Day celebrations, which were to begin at sundown.

Netanyahu said Israel is "determined to stand strong" in the face of "continued incitement by our neighbors, a great many of whom refuse to come to terms with our existence."

He warned that "anyone who raises a hand against us won't be spared."

Iran has been a major backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad in the seven-year Syrian civil war, providing the Assad government with troops, arms and militiamen.

Israel has repeatedly warned that it will take action to prevent Iran from entrenching its forces in neighboring Syria or transfer strategic arms to the Shiite militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon. Israel has carried out numerous airstrikes in Syria, most believed to have targeted suspected arms shipments bound for Hezbollah.

But in recent weeks, Israel and its archenemy Iran have moved closer toward open conflict. In February, Israel shot down what it says was an Iranian drone, launched from Syria, carrying explosives aimed at an Israeli target. Israel responded with airstrikes in Syria, with one warplane shot down, while destroying Syrian anti-aircraft systems at the T4 air base.

Last week, that same base was attacked in an airstrike that Syria, Iran and Russia all blamed on Israel. The Israelis have not commented on the strike, which killed at least four Iranian military personnel, but Iran has vowed revenge.

Earlier on Wednesday, Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei on Twitter called for "offensive plans against the enemy," without specifically naming Israel.

Earlier this week an aide to Khamenei said Iran is capable of destroying Israel and "if you provide an excuse for Iran, Tel Aviv and Haifa will be razed to the ground."

Netanyahu spoke at ceremonies paying respects to fallen soldiers and victims of terrorism at the Mount Herzl cemetery in Jerusalem, hours before Israel was to begin celebrating its 70th anniversary at sundown.

Netanyahu doubled down on his defiant statement at an Independence Day celebration ceremony Wednesday night, saying Israel is "not deterred from a struggle against those who strive for our annihilation."

"If we're required to defend ourselves, we will rise to the challenge and ensure Israel's victory," Netanyahu said.

The government is celebrating the country's many economic and cultural accomplishments, while Israelis spend the day with dancing, fireworks, parties and barbecues.

President Donald Trump tweeted congratulations to "all of the people of Israel on the 70th Anniversary of your Great Independence. We have no better friends anywhere. Looking forward to moving our Embassy to Jerusalem next month!"

But this year's festivities have been tempered by rising tensions along Israel's northern front with Syria and on the southern border with the Gaza Strip.

Palestinians in Gaza have demonstrated on the Israeli border fence every Friday since March 30, and 28 Palestinians have been killed and over 1,500 wounded by Israeli fire.

The Hamas-led protests are meant to draw attention to a decade-long Israeli-Egyptian blockade imposed on Gaza after the Islamic militant group seized power there. More protests are expected in the coming weeks, with Hamas signaling it may call for a massive breach of the border.

Earlier on Wednesday, Israel came to a two-minute standstill to mark Memorial Day, one of the most somber days on its calendar.

Motorists pulled over on the sides of highways and roads, and pedestrians stopped in their tracks silently with heads bowed as a siren rang out at 11 a.m. A minute of silence was similarly observed on Tuesday evening.

People visited cemeteries and attended remembrance ceremonies across the country as radio and television networks broadcast programs about battle and loss and played solemn Hebrew music.

Israel has fought half a dozen wars with Arab countries since its establishment in 1948, battled two Palestinian uprisings and endured dozens of deadly militant attacks. Military service is mandatory, and after decades of conflict most Israelis have personally experienced the grief of war or know someone who has.

Israel counts 23,646 people who have been killed in wars and terror attacks since the fight for independence began, with 71 new names joining the list this year.Israelis attend a ceremony marking Israel's annual Memorial Day for fallen soldiers, in Tel Aviv, Israel, Tuesday, April 17, 2018. Israel marks the annual Memorial Day in remembrance of soldiers who died in the nation's conflicts, beginning at dusk Tuesday until Wednesday evening. (AP Photo/Oded Balilty)

JERUSALEM (AP) — Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday issued a veiled warning to Iran, saying in a Memorial Day speech that his country will defend itself against anyone that tries to harm it.

The premier's remarks on Israel's national day of mourning come amid rising tensions between Israel and Iran over an alleged Israeli airstrike targeting a Syrian air force base last week that left at least four Iranian military personnel dead.

Iran has threatened to retaliate, casting a shadow over Israel's celebration of its 70-year Independence Day celebrations, which were to begin at sundown.

Netanyahu said Israel is "determined to stand strong" in the face of "continued incitement by our neighbors, a great many of whom refuse to come to terms with our existence."

He warned that "anyone who raises a hand against us won't be spared."

Iran has been a major backer of Syrian President Bashar Assad in the seven-year Syrian civil war, providing the Assad government with troops, arms and militiamen.

Israel has repeatedly warned that it will take action to prevent Iran from entrenching its forces in neighboring Syria or transfer strategic arms to the Shiite militant group Hezbollah in Lebanon. Israel has carried out numerous airstrikes in Syria, most believed to have targeted suspected arms shipments bound for Hezbollah.

But in recent weeks, Israel and its archenemy Iran have moved closer toward open conflict. In February, Israel shot down what it says was an Iranian drone, launched from Syria, carrying explosives aimed at an Israeli target. Israel responded with airstrikes in Syria, with one warplane shot down, while destroying Syrian anti-aircraft systems at the T4 air base.

Last week, that same base was attacked in an airstrike that Syria, Iran and Russia all blamed on Israel. The Israelis have not commented on the strike, which killed at least four Iranian military personnel, but Iran has vowed revenge.

Earlier on Wednesday, Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei on Twitter called for "offensive plans against the enemy," without specifically naming Israel.

Earlier this week an aide to Khamenei said Iran is capable of destroying Israel and "if you provide an excuse for Iran, Tel Aviv and Haifa will be razed to the ground."

Netanyahu spoke at ceremonies paying respects to fallen soldiers and victims of terrorism at the Mount Herzl cemetery in Jerusalem, hours before Israel was to begin celebrating its 70th anniversary at sundown.

Netanyahu doubled down on his defiant statement at an Independence Day celebration ceremony Wednesday night, saying Israel is "not deterred from a struggle against those who strive for our annihilation."

"If we're required to defend ourselves, we will rise to the challenge and ensure Israel's victory," Netanyahu said.

The government is celebrating the country's many economic and cultural accomplishments, while Israelis spend the day with dancing, fireworks, parties and barbecues.

President Donald Trump tweeted congratulations to "all of the people of Israel on the 70th Anniversary of your Great Independence. We have no better friends anywhere. Looking forward to moving our Embassy to Jerusalem next month!"

But this year's festivities have been tempered by rising tensions along Israel's northern front with Syria and on the southern border with the Gaza Strip.

Palestinians in Gaza have demonstrated on the Israeli border fence every Friday since March 30, and 28 Palestinians have been killed and over 1,500 wounded by Israeli fire.

The Hamas-led protests are meant to draw attention to a decade-long Israeli-Egyptian blockade imposed on Gaza after the Islamic militant group seized power there. More protests are expected in the coming weeks, with Hamas signaling it may call for a massive breach of the border.

Earlier on Wednesday, Israel came to a two-minute standstill to mark Memorial Day, one of the most somber days on its calendar.

Motorists pulled over on the sides of highways and roads, and pedestrians stopped in their tracks silently with heads bowed as a siren rang out at 11 a.m. A minute of silence was similarly observed on Tuesday evening.

People visited cemeteries and attended remembrance ceremonies across the country as radio and television networks broadcast programs about battle and loss and played solemn Hebrew music.

Israel has fought half a dozen wars with Arab countries since its establishment in 1948, battled two Palestinian uprisings and endured dozens of deadly militant attacks. Military service is mandatory, and after decades of conflict most Israelis have personally experienced the grief of war or know someone who has.

Israel counts 23,646 people who have been killed in wars and terror attacks since the fight for independence began, with 71 new names joining the list this year.Nikki Haley, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, sharply responded to the suggestion that she was confused when she said that President Donald Trump’s administration would be imposing more sanctions on Russia.

“With all due respect, I don’t get confused,” the ambassador said in a statement to Fox News’ Dana Perino, who read the comment during her Tuesday show.

Haley was responding specifically to Trump’s newly appointed economic adviser Larry Kudlow, who said earlier on Tuesday that the ambassador “got ahead of the curve” when she told CBS’s “Face the Nation” on Sunday that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin would announce additional sanctions on Russia for supporting Syrian dictator Bashar Assad.

Nikki Haley said on Sunday that the U.S. would impose additional sanctions on Russia, only to be contradicted by the White House. More

“There might have been some momentary confusion about that,” Kudlow told reporters in West Palm Beach, Florida, a day after reports surfaced that Trump had reversed his position on imposing sanctions. The reversal surprised fellow Republicans and seemed to clearly undermine Haley.

Kudlow walked back his comment in an interview with The New York Times, saying he was wrong to say Haley was confused.

“She was certainly not confused. I was wrong to say that — totally wrong,” he said. He added that Haley was not informed of a change in policy.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said a decision on additional sanctions would be finalized “in the near future.”Nikki Haley, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, sharply responded to the suggestion that she was confused when she said that President Donald Trump’s administration would be imposing more sanctions on Russia.

“With all due respect, I don’t get confused,” the ambassador said in a statement to Fox News’ Dana Perino, who read the comment during her Tuesday show.

Haley was responding specifically to Trump’s newly appointed economic adviser Larry Kudlow, who said earlier on Tuesday that the ambassador “got ahead of the curve” when she told CBS’s “Face the Nation” on Sunday that Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin would announce additional sanctions on Russia for supporting Syrian dictator Bashar Assad.

Nikki Haley said on Sunday that the U.S. would impose additional sanctions on Russia, only to be contradicted by the White House. More

“There might have been some momentary confusion about that,” Kudlow told reporters in West Palm Beach, Florida, a day after reports surfaced that Trump had reversed his position on imposing sanctions. The reversal surprised fellow Republicans and seemed to clearly undermine Haley.

Kudlow walked back his comment in an interview with The New York Times, saying he was wrong to say Haley was confused.

“She was certainly not confused. I was wrong to say that — totally wrong,” he said. He added that Haley was not informed of a change in policy.

White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said a decision on additional sanctions would be finalized “in the near future.”South Korean authorities have formally requested a travel ban on the youngest daughter of Korean Air Chairman Cho Yang-ho after she allegedly threw a drink at someone during an office meeting.

Cho Hyun-min, a senior vice president at the airline also known as Emily Cho, is accused of yelling at and throwing a cup of plum juice at an advertising firm manager last month. She told reporters at the airport on Sunday that she merely "pushed" a cup and didn't throw it at anyone's face.

Seoul’s Gangseo Police Station is investigating the criminal case and requested Cho's travel ban from the justice ministry on Tuesday.

Korean Air has suspended the 35-year-old graduate of the University of Southern California, who apologized to all Korean Air employees in an email and posted another apology via social media that read, in part, "It is my big fault for not controlling my own emotions."

PHOTO: Korean Air heiress Cho Hyun-min, a senior executive at Korean Air Lines Co. and the second daughter of its chairman, arrives at Incheon International Airport on April 15, 2018. (Yonhap News via Newscom) More

Cho's older sister, Cho Hyun-ah, also known as Heather, served a jail sentence after a 2014 incident in which she threw a tantrum and demanded the plane she was on return to its gate at New York's JFK airport because of the way she was served a bag of nuts in first class.

The Korea Customs Service is also looking into accusations that Cho family members have ordered staff to bring in luxury goods without paying customs duties.

Korean Air did not immediately respond to a request for additional comments.James Comey stopped by The View today for a live interview. The ex-FBI director spoke candidly about his book, his time working for America, and his views on politics today. “The Republican Party left me,” he said. “I used to think that at the heart of being a conservative … that character matter[ed] and … values matter[ed] … and I don’t know where that is today in the Republican Party.”

Co-host of The View, and outspoken Republican Meghan McCain, had some issues with Comey’s statements about her party. “You said very incendiary things about my party,” she said. McCain continued by stating that Comey was doing all of this — the book, the talk shows — for the fame rather than helping the country. “Why bring up politics now? … You sound like a political commentator.”

Comey’s response to McCain made it clear that he is not doing this for the fame, but rather to support American values. “I don’t care who [people] support. … I hope the conversation will start with values. … All we are as a country is a collection of values, and that’s what unites Republicans and Democrats. And I hope that’s not a political statement.”

Read more from Yahoo Entertainment:She was born to privilege, as the daughter of a successful businessman from an old Yankee family, and married into still more privilege, to the son of a United States senator. But life held even greater triumphs — and a measure of tragedy — for Barbara Pierce, who dropped out of college to marry a dashing young Navy pilot named George H.W. Bush. In more than 70 years together, they moved dozens of times as her husband pursued his career as an oilman in California and Texas, and she bore him six children.

One of them — the second, a girl known as Robin — died in 1953, at the age of 3. But George’s whirlwind political career would carry them both to the heights of power and success. In 1981, Barbara Bush became second lady of the United States, and eight years later, first lady. In 2000, when her firstborn son, George W., was elected president, she became the second woman in American history (the first was Abigail Adams) to be both the wife and mother of a president. And if the 2016 election had turned out differently for her son Jeb, she might have added another presidential branch to her family tree. (Jerry Adler/Yahoo News)

Read: Barbara Bush, the ‘enforcer’ of a political dynasty, is dead by Holly Bailey >>>

See more news-related photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo’s Tumblr.A retired nurse was among those on a Southwest Airlines flight who tried in vain to help save an injured passenger when the plane's engine exploded in midair Tuesday.

"I did what any registered nurse would do,” Peggy Phillips said in an interview this morning on ABC News' "Good Morning America" with co-anchor Robin Roberts.

About 20 minutes after takeoff from New York's LaGuardia Airport Tuesday, Phillips heard an "incredibly loud noise" aboard Flight 1380 as the distressed aircraft started to shake and oxygen masks dropped from the cabin ceiling, she said.

After putting on her mask and helping other passengers with theirs, Phillips saw flight attendants and other passengers rush to help someone several rows behind her, she recalled.

"I think we all knew at that point that something was terribly wrong," she said. "I knew something had happened, but I wasn't sure what."

PHOTO: A blown out window taken from inside the Southwest Airlines plane that made an emergency landing at the Philadelphia airport, April 17, 2018. (Marty Martinez) More

A passenger, Jennifer Riordan of New Mexico, was partially sucked out a shattered window near the jet's engine after it exploded, according to witnesses. Two other passengers managed to pull the woman back inside the plane.

That's when Phillips' training kicked in, she said.

"The minute they said, 'We need someone who knows CPR,' I got up and went back," she said on “GMA.”

Phillips and an emergency medical technician onboard laid the woman down and immediately began administering CPR, while the pilot urged everyone to brace for an emergency landing.

PHOTO: Passengers aboard a Southwest Airlines flight that made an emergency landing at the Philadelphia airport, April 17, 2018. (Marty Martinez/Facebook) More

One passenger, Marty Martinez, logged into Facebook Live in hopes of reaching family members and friends during what he feared would be his final moments.

"All I could think of in that moment was, I need to communicate with my loved ones," Martinez told "GMA" in an interview this morning. "As everyone was putting on their oxygen masks, I was reaching for my laptop."

The pilot was forced to land the Boeing 737 at Philadelphia International Airport. The flight, which was en route to Texas' Dallas Love Field Airport, was carrying 144 passengers and five crew members at the time, officials said.

"It was just the most terrifying experience," Martinez said.

Woman 'partially sucked out a window' dies after engine failure on Southwest flight

Passenger recalls horror of deadly Southwest flight: 'I thought I was dying'

PHOTO: The engine of a Southwest Airlines plane after an emergency landing at the Philadelphia airport, April 17, 2018. (Joe Marcus/Twitter) More

Riordan was transported to a hospital in Philadelphia where she later died, though officials did not immediately confirm how. Seven others suffered minor injuries and weren't taken to hospitals, officials said.

"Jennifer Riordan has passed away as a result of previously reported events on Southwest Airlines flight No. 1380," Riordan's family said in a statement obtained by ABC News. "Jennifer’s vibrancy, passion and love infused our community and reached across our country. Her impact on everything and everyone she touched can never be fully measured."

Story ContinuesIt’s all about small businesses. During a high-profile Supreme Court case about Internet sales tax on Tuesday, both sides emphasized the interest of small businesses in their arguments.

In South Dakota v. Wayfair Inc. (W) case, states want to reverse a 1992 ruling known as Quill v. North Dakota, which requires retailers to collect sales tax only if they have a physical presence in a state. They believe the ruling is obsolete, making states lose massive revenue while hurting small businesses.

“Our small businesses on Main Street are being harmed because of the unlevel playing field created by Quill, where out-of-state remote sellers are given a price advantage,” Marty Jackley, South Dakota’s attorney general, argued.

George Isaacson, a lawyer representing Wayfair and other online merchants in the case, believes small online businesses will bear the cost if the 1992 ruling gets overturned.

“If you increase the cost of admission, if you have barriers to entry, one of the inevitable effects is going to be that those small and medium-sized companies are going to be deterred and there will be even greater concentration by the largest retailers,” said Isaacson.

In a debate where opposite sides claim to protect small businesses, Justice Sonia Sotomayor asked, “Is there any brief I can read or any source to determine what constitutes a small business in America?”

It’s hard for small businesses to win

States argue they want to collect internet sales tax to help local merchants level the playing field with their online competitors. (CNBC) More

The case highlights how small and middle-size retailers have become the center of the debate in sales tax collections. Though President Donald Trump has repeatedly accused Amazon of not paying taxes, 19 of the 20 largest Internet retailers, including Amazon (AMZN) and Walmart (WMT), do collect taxes in most states since they have gradually established a local physical presence across the U.S. But smaller sellers have largely avoided collecting taxes because of ambiguous laws and complex tax codes that vary in each state. States argue this pits small businesses that are not headquartered in their hometowns against locally based retailers.

“Small businesses are not being treated fairly,” said Jackley. “We’re not asking remote sellers to do anything that we’re not already asking our small businesses to do in our state. And that is simply to collect and remit a tax.”

Justices also asked about the cost of implementing the sales tax program, and if there should be a minimum sales requirement on small businesses that would be subjected to the sales tax. South Dakota’s current law requires companies with at least $100,000 in sales or 200 transactions in the state to collect and remit sales taxes.

The increasing trend of more brick-and-mortar stores expanding their online presence further complicates the arguments in the case. According to a survey by Clutch, a Washington, DC-based research firm, over 70% of all small businesses have a website, though this doesn’t necessarily mean they sell products online.

Some justices worry that favoring either side in the case would ultimately benefit large companies. Amazon, for example, now provides third-party sellers on its site with a tax calculation service, but charges 2.9% of all sales. Piper Jaffray estimates more sellers will sign up for the Amazon service if they are faced with a complex sales tax environment, helping to boost a high-margin revenue stream for Amazon.

“Now there’s something a little bit ironic in saying the problem with Quill is that it benefited all these companies, so now we’re going to overturn Quill so that we can benefit the exact same companies,” said Justice Elena Kagan on Tuesday.

A decision on South Dakota v. Wayfair Inc., is expected to be reached by July.

Krystal Hu covers technology and economy for Yahoo Finance. Do you think online sellers should collect sales tax? Write to Krystal at krystalh@oath.com or follow her on Twitter

Read more:

Apple CEO Tim Cook on Facebook data leak: Regulation is necessary

Amazon and Whole Foods clash over products like Coca-Cola

How to bet on Amazon without buying Amazon stockANAHEIM, Calif. – This here, Tuesday night in a full ballpark expecting something like magic, the schedule not exactly perfect, the opponent not exactly the Oakland A’s, is what happens instead sometimes. This here is a 23-year-old pitching nine days later, against a bunch of grown and decorated men, on a night when not a single pitch will behave, when it seems like it won’t ever end. And it’s the second inning.

This is the part where it begins to look a little different. That reminds everyone it’s not that easy, that it never is, that 100-mph fastballs carry a long way the other direction too, that 90-mph splitters aren’t so devious when they barely clear the grass, that all the homemade signs and new T-shirts and parking revenues count little toward pitching precision.

Los Angeles Angels rookie Shohei Ohtani, the two-way phenomenon from Japan whose 2 ½-week toe-dip into the big leagues had wrought a 2-0 record and a 2.08 ERA (along with a .367 batting average and three home runs), in his third start gave up three runs in two innings, threw a gluttonous 66 pitches, forced but three swings-and-misses among them, and in the end left because (at least in part) of a blister on the middle finger of his throwing hand.

This was a young man who, due to a six-man rotation and a weather postponement, hadn’t thrown a competitive pitch since two Sundays ago. Also a young man who looked as though he’d given a little too much thought to his first big test, that being the Boston Red Sox of Mookie Betts, Hanley Ramirez, J.D. Martinez, et al. And, therefore, a young man who spiked his first few splitters, all but stumbled while throwing his first curveball, spun a good portion of his sliders waist-high, and so was left with a reliably big fastball but with none of the trimmings.

Los Angeles Angels starting pitcher Shohei Ohtani only lasted two innings in a loss vs. Boston on Tuesday. (AP)

Also, perhaps, a developing blister, which Ohtani apparently has been prone to, the sort of thing 38 pitches in a single inning (the second) would seem to inflame.

Story Continues

The final line over two innings said something about four hits and two walks and three runs, one of them on Betts’ home run seven pitches in, those nine days after he was all but unhittable against the A’s. This time, the fastballs that had grazed the perimeter of the strike zone, the splitters that for the better part of 60 feet had looked so much like strikes, the sliders that had skittered away from the bat barrels, well, there was very little grazing or looking like or skittering away. There was a lot of blowing on his hand on a warm night, of awaiting catcher Martin Maldonado’s return throw, of searching for a repeatable release point.

After two innings, and with the bullpen already warmed behind him, Ohtani pushed his cap back on his head, hiked up his pants, and walked out from under the eyes of nearly 45,000 people — the Angels’ largest crowd of the season — to see him and the challenge that was the Red Sox. The Red Sox won, 10-1. Betts hit three home runs. Those remaining by the third of the home runs were generally Red Sox fans, and so the big roll out of the 13-3 Angels and their prized new ace against the 13-2 Red Sox and David Price ended with a thud, some unwanted puss and a lot of conversation about the two-way guy’s middle finger.

This here, then, is what a baseball season looks like, one little issue after another, great promise followed by whatever-the-heck-that-was followed by another game tomorrow, and a chance to start all over. On the schedule established over 16 prior games, Ohtani would take Wednesday night’s game to recover, then return Thursday night as the designated hitter. He seemed largely unconcerned with the blister, even saying he could have pitched through the ailment and resulting imprecision were the season at a more critical juncture. Manager Mike Scioscia said he expected Ohtani would be healthy enough to make his next start – presumably next Tuesday in Houston – but there’d be no reason to rush to a decision. Ohtani and Scioscia seemed optimistic the blister would not hinder Ohtani’s hitting.

Three-and-a-half hours after the public address announcer had blasted, “The starting pitcher, No. 17, Sho-HEYYY Oh-TA-nee!” and the crowd had roared, and the first fastball had buzzed home in the mid-90s, and everyone had settled in for another good look at the young man who will help to turn a franchise, there was only the blister. And what happened. And why. And what now.

“The blister actually developed in my last start,” Ohtani explained. “I felt like it would be fine. … The high intensity of this game, it didn’t hold up too well.”

While the resulting lack of command seemed most obvious on his splitter, Ohtani said, “My fastball, I didn’t have good feel off my fingertips.”

Maybe it’s more of the new baseball, whose stitches are said to run higher in the American game. Maybe it’s the wear and tear of the splitter, as Ohtani fought blisters in Japan, as well. And, probably, it’s nothing more than the rigors of the early days of a new career, in the early days of a new season, and therefore expecting that sometimes it’ll all rub a bit thin. Maybe on the fingers. Maybe on the scoreboard.

“Another lesson,” Ohtani said. “Something I have to learn. … Something I need to get better at for the next time.”

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Teammate bursts into tears during NFL star’s retirement

• Charles Robinson: Why things may get ugly for Rodgers, Packers

• Report: LeBron sued over barbershop web show

• Are Yankees fans being too tough on Stanton?

Paula Patton has found love with another woman's husband, according to Page Six.

The actress spoke candidly about her "boyfriend," Zachary Quittman, in a recent interview with Essence, calling it a "suburban romance" that blossomed while their kids played after-school sports together.

The only problem? Also apparently present at those after-school events was his wife.

Patton "paints herself as the jilted woman who was left for another woman," a source says, referencing Patton's split from ex Robin Thicke. "But she's doing the asme f--king s--t. She's a hypocrite."

Despite reports that Quittman is a single dad, he's in fact reportedly a father of two who's been with his wife for 20 years. They have not legally separated nor has he removed any of his items from their shared home since moving in with Patton. He relocated to Patton's place when they began dating one month ago.

"When you know, you know," Patton told Essence. "I love him."

Quittman's wife, who is now pursuing a divorce, had previously spent time with Patton and thought she was "nice." She has "just been shocked" by the sudden affair and romance.Six degrees of separation is never truer than in Tinseltown!

Paula Patton and Meghan Markle have a total Hollywood connection, but it's not what you might think.

"I met her because she helped me with my wedding invitations," Patton revealed. The 42-year-old actress was sitting down to chat with ET about her upcoming movie, Traffik, when the remarkable Markle connection came up.

Markle, who is set to wed Prince Harry on May 19, was apparently working as a clerk at the Paper Source, where Patton had the invitations made for her 2005 wedding to ex-husband Robine Thicke, and hand-wrote the addresses on the envelopes.

"She had this beautiful writing," Patton recalled. "That moment I feel like I said something to her. Like, 'You are meant to be royal'... She was just so graceful and lovely, and actually really kind."

As for her latest movie, Patton gets to exhibit a different kind of grace -- as a boss. She not only produced and starred in the film, which revolves around a romantic getaway that goes awry with the appearance of a woman in need of help, but she did her own stunts, too.

"That's what's fun about it," she said of her character's stunts. "This girl, she doesn't know how to fight and she doesn't know how to be in a car chase and so it was fun for me, as a character, as an actor, as a human, but also to portray this person. To actually go through those experiences, you know. I've never been dragged out of a car, so I need someone to do it for me, so I have the right reaction."

Traffik hits theaters April 20.

Robin Thicke and Paula Patton Reportedly Settle Long Custody Battle

EXCLUSIVE: Paula Patton Reveals How Motherhood Shaped Her Performance on ABC's 'Somewhere Between'

Related Articles:True Thompson has her own Instagram account and already has more followers than youDonald Trump has seen the police sketch of the man Stormy Daniels claims threatened her in 2011 to keep quiet about her alleged affair with the now-president, and he isn’t buying it.

On Wednesday, Trump retweeted a photo of the sketch Daniels first unveiled on Tuesday’s episode of The View.

“A sketch years later about a nonexistent man,” he wrote. “A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)!”

The original tweet featured the sketch side-by-side with a split photograph of Daniels, smiling and posing next to a man with similar features. The post suggested Daniels was friends with the man who had allegedly threatened her, the tweeter writing, “Oops! This is awkward!”

A sketch years later about a nonexistent man. A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)! https://t.co/9Is7mHBFda — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 18, 2018

Daniels’ attorney, Michael Avenatti, issued two tweets Wednesday morning just after Trump’s message, writing in one that “In my experience, there is nothing better in litigation than having a completely unhinged, undisciplined opponent who is prone to shooting himself in the foot. Always leads to BIGLY problems…like new claims (i.e. defamation). LOL.”

In my experience, there is nothing better in litigation than having a completely unhinged, undisciplined opponent who is prone to shooting himself in the foot. Always leads to BIGLY problems…like new claims (i.e. defamation). LOL. #xmas #hanukkah #basta — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) April 18, 2018

FBI search warrants uncovering EXISTING documents and recordings showing con job after con job pulled on REAL people and very REAL American citizens (who didn’t know it). Welcome to the playing field. #whereyoubeen #basta — Michael Avenatti (@MichaelAvenatti) April 18, 2018

“The president is clearly panicked and he should be. Because I believe that he knows the noose is tightening,” Avenatti told PEOPLE later Wednesday morning.

Asked if he planned to file a defamation lawsuit, the lawyer replied: “That’s something we are certainly exploring this morning.”

Daniels and Avenatti discussed the scandal surrounding her alleged relationship with Trump on The View, unveiling the police sketch for the first time.

Viewers then started sharing their own photos of potential suspects to Twitter, many joking that the man in the sketch had an uncanny resemblance to Patriots quarterback (and Trump friend) Tom Brady.

During The View appearance, Daniels slammed Trump’s claim that he didn’t know anything about the $130,000 payment his longtime personal lawyer, Michael Cohen (whose office was raided by the FBI earlier this month), made to her just before the 2016 election. The payment was allegedly made to persuade her to keep quiet about an alleged affair she had with Trump in 2006, just a few months after now First Lady Melania Trump gave birth to the couple’s only child, Barron.

“Let me just say, I work in the adult business and I’m a better actress than he is,” she said.

The payment was made five years after Daniels was allegedly threatened in 2011 — shortly after she opened up about the alleged affair to In Touch magazine. (The tabloid ultimately held the story, and only released it earlier this year.)Stormy Daniels shared a sketch on The View of the man she says threatened her about Donald Trump—and according to the Internet, he looks a lot like a teen heartthrob.

Stormy Daniels is back in the news today after her millennial pink suit moment at Michael Cohen’s courthouse appearance yesterday. This time she’s sharing a sketch of the man she alleges intimidated her in a parking lot in 2011, and Twitter soon noticed that he looks a lot like a teen heartthrob. The sketch that Daniels and her lawyer Michael Avenatti showed on The View has a strong jawline; is described as 5 feet 9 to 6 feet tall and “lean but ‘fit’ ” by the sketch artist Lois Gibson; and looks generally like the hot jock you would pine for in a teen drama of the early aughts. Though Daniels reiterated her account from 60 Minutes (that the man threatened her, while telling her obliquely to drop the story of her affair with Donald Trump that she had just given to In Touch) and also announced a $100,000 reward to identify him, the Internet was more concerned with figuring out whether he looked more like Luke from The O.C., Chad Michael Murray, or a young Tom Brady.

Chad Michael Murray

Luke from The O.C.

Smith Jerrod from Sex and the City

Tom Brady

Jon Bon Jovi

Willem Dafoe

Victor Webster

Matt Damon from Team AmericaA Tuesday Twitter rant from a Fresno State English professor sparked an immediate backlash after Randa Jarrar labeled Barbara Bush an “amazing racist” on the same day the former first lady died.

Fresno State President Joseph I. Castro released a statement on the school’s website Tuesday evening denouncing Jarrar’s comments while extending “deepest condolences to the Bush family” following the 92-year-old Bush matriarch’s death at her Houston home. Jarrar’s Tuesday Twitter posts took shots at both former presidents, George H.W. and George W. Bush, and lashed out at those offering the family support. “Barbara Bush was a generous and smart and amazing racist who, along with her husband, raised a war criminal. F-ck outta here with your nice words,” Jarrar wrote in the now-protected tweet.

Screen Shot 2018-04-18 at 9 More

Screenshot: Twitter

Trending: Scientists Save Endangered Bat Species That Helps Make Tequila

Jarrar is a tenured professor who describes herself as Arab-American on her author page and says she “grew up in Kuwait and Egypt” before moving to the U.S. following the Gulf War. After thousands of Twitter replies blasted her first tweet and called for her removal from the school, Jarrar doubled down and tweeted from her verified account, “I will never be fired.” She continued responding, writing a separate tweet, “If you’d like to know what it’s like to be an Arab American Muslim American woman with some clout online expressing an opinion, look at the racists going crazy in my mentions right now.”

Jarrar continued trading barbs with other Twitter users for roughly three hours, even tagging the Department of Homeland Security's official handle, Fresno State’s official account and challenging a user handle called “@LogicalRighties” to contact school president Castro, KFSN-TV first reported. Both the school and Castro promptly issued statements via Twitter:

"On behalf of Fresno State, I extend my deepest condolences to the Bush family on the loss of our former First Lady, Barbara Bush. We share the deep concerns expressed by others over the personal comments made today by Professor Randa Jarrar, a professor in the English Department at Fresno State. Her statements were made as a private citizen, not as a representative of Fresno State. Professor Jarrar's expressed personal views and commentary are obviously contrary to the core values of our University, which include respect and empathy for individuals with divergent points of view, and a sincere commitment to mutual understanding and progress." Don't miss: ‘League of Legends’ Midseason Update: What’s Changing on the Rift?

After receiving more than 2,400 replies, her Twitter account was locked, her brief profile bio changed to, “Currently on leave from Fresno State. this [sic] is my private account and represents my opinions.” In addition, the Fresno State English Department's website lists her as on "LEAVE."

Statement by @Fresno_State President @JosephICastro regarding tweets made today by a faculty member: pic.twitter.com/h3ZbQyMmxd — Fresno State (@Fresno_State) April 18, 2018

The College Republicans of Fresno State issued a statement to Newsweek: "The comments from Professor Randa Jarrar are wholly inappropriate and out of line. Barbara Bush's years of service to children and adults alike in promoting literacy are something to be celebrated. While Professor Jarrar's comments are protected under the First Amendment, the provocative and reckless manner that she conducted herself through her tweets last night is irresponsible. We believe that Ms. Jarrar has crossed the line and should be terminated from her position at Fresno State."

Most popular: Since Parkland Shooting, NRA-Backed Bills Have Advanced in Large Numbers in State Legislatures

Jarrar is an author whose works include the 2009 "Arab-American coming of age novel," A Map of Home, as well as her latest book, Him, Me, Muhammad Ali, about displaced Muslim men and women "who have gone astray," according to the book's description.Former first lady Barbara Bush, left, seen here with her son George W. Bush in 1992, has died at the age of 92 (AFP Photo/CHRIS WILKINS)

Washington (AFP) - Former president George H.W. Bush thanked fellow Americans Wednesday for their "outpouring of love" following the loss of his wife of seven decades, Barbara, saying the tributes flowing in for the one-time first lady were "lifting us all up."

Long seen as the pillar of one of America's most prominent families, as wife to the 41st US president and mother to the 43rd, Barbara Bush died Tuesday at her home in Texas aged 92, surrounded by her family.

Her 93-year-old husband, who was at her side until the end, holding her hand, was said to be heart-broken at the loss of "his beloved Barbara."

But on Wednesday the ex-commander-in-chief struck a resolutely stoical tone.

"I always knew Barbara as the most beloved woman in the world," he wrote in a statement. "In fact I used to tease her that I had a complex about that fact."

"But the truth is the outpouring of love and friendship being directed at The Enforcer is lifting us all up" -- he said, using a fond nickname coined by the Bush clan for their matriarch.

"We know life will go on -- as she would have it," he added. "So cross the Bushes off your worry list."

Known for her trademark faux pearls and tart-tongued comments about life in and out of Washington -- but also her deep loyalty to family and self-deprecating humor -- Barbara Bush was in many ways a figure more popular among ordinary Americans than her high-flying husband and sons.

Having undergone heart surgery in 2009, she was treated for years for Graves' disease, a thyroid condition. As her health failed in recent days, she was moved into comfort care at her home in Houston.

"As a result of her soul being comforted on her deathbed, my soul is comforted," said her son George W. Bush, who won the White House eight years after his father left it. "It's the end of a beautiful life," he told Fox Business.

Barbara Bush is survived by five children, 17 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. She lost a sixth child -- daughter Robin -- to leukemia as a toddler.

She will be laid to rest in Texas after a memorial ceremony Saturday in Houston, to be attended by First Lady Melania Trump, as well as the former president Barack Obama and his wife Michelle, and the former vice president Dick Cheney and his wife Lynne.

Former president Bill Clinton and his wife Hillary were also reportedly due to attend.

President Donald Trump ordered flags to fly at half-staff at all public buildings and military posts in Bush's honor, as he hailed her work to promote literacy as first lady from 1989 to 1993, and beyond.

- 'Grit and grace' -

Tributes poured in from across the political spectrum, including from the Obamas who voiced gratitude for "to Mrs Bush for the generosity she showed to us throughout our time in the White House."

"But we're even more grateful for the way she lived her life -- as a testament to the fact that public service is an important and noble calling; as an example of the humility and decency that reflects the very best of the American spirit."

Bill Clinton, who succeeded her husband in office, described Bush as "a remarkable woman" who brought together "grit and grace, brains and beauty."

"She was fierce and feisty in support of her family and friends, her country and her causes. She showed us what an honest, vibrant, full life looks like."

Barbara met her husband-to-be at age 16 when she was a schoolgirl and he was a student at an elite Massachusetts preparatory school. They married in 1945 while he was on leave from wartime service.

She made history as one of just two women to be wife and mother to two US presidents. Abigail Adams, who died in 1818, was the other.

Her son Jeb, a two-term Florida governor who also ran for president, paid tribute to "the exceptionally gracious, gregarious, fun, funny, loving, tough, smart, graceful woman who was the force of nature known as Barbara Bush."

Barbara Bush was her husband's companion and advisor as they traveled the world, moving multiple times as he rose from Texas oil man to congressman, US ambassador to the United Nations and envoy to China, director of the CIA and eventually to the vice presidency and the White House.

But she made a point of avoiding direct involvement in politics, and the posturing that comes with it -- gaining a reputation for toughness, wry humor and straight-speaking.

"I'm not running for president; George Bush is," she said at the 1988 Republican National Convention. "What you see with me is what you get."Cocaine smuggler gets 8 years in $21M case, chastised by judge for social media lifestyle More

A convicted cocaine importer known for her Instagram photos at breathtaking travel destinations has been sentenced to eight years in prison for helping smuggle $21 million worth of the drug. Melina Roberge, 24, a Canadian, weeped in an Australian courtroom while learning she will serve a minimum four years and nine months in prison, and a maximum eight years, with her earliest release date in May 2021, the New York Post reported. Roberge is the youngest of three Canadians who prosecutors said imported 209 pounds of cocaine on a luxury cruise en route to Australia, where it docked and was raided, the report said. Australian authorities called it the largest drug seizure on a commercial boat or

Continue ReadingInstagram Star Who Smuggled Drugs For Likes Sentenced to 8 Years in Prison More

A Canadian woman, who has been dubbed “cocaine babe” by the media, has been sentenced to a maximum of eight years in prison for smuggling suitcases of drugs into Australia. Melina Roberge, 24, was arrested in 2016 after Australian Border Force authorities raided Sea Princess, a luxury cruise ship, while it was docked in Sydney, and discovered suitcases filled with cocaine in her possession, Austrlian media reported. On Wednesday, Roberge cried as NSW District Court Judge Kate Traill sentenced her to eight years in jail for drug trafficking.

Continue ReadingQuebec cocaine smuggler sentenced in Australia More

An Australian court has sentenced a 24-year-old Quebec woman to eight years in prison for attempting to smuggle cocaine. Melina Roberge was in tears as Judge Kate Trail delivered the sentence. Roberge was convicted of smuggling a $16 million worth of cocaine into Sydney aboard a luxury cruise ship. Police dogs had located 35 kilograms of cocaine in Roberge's cabin aboard the MS Sea Princess when it docked in August 2016. Roberge had told the court she agreed to smuggle the drugs in exchange for the opportunity to take selfies in exotic locations and post them on social media, a vacation estimated at $17,000. Judge Trail called the crime a "sad" reflection of Roberge's age group, saying that she

Continue Reading'Almost everyone' in a photo of Southwest's emergency landing wore their oxygen masks 'wrong,' says a former flight attendant More

Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 suffered a major engine failure on Tuesday, forcing its pilot to make an emergency landing. Shrapnel reportedly pierced the airplane's fuselage, blew out a window, and caused the cabin of the airplane to depressurize. The incident left one passenger dead. Tammie Jo Shults, the pilot of the flight (who used to fly US Navy fighter jets), guided the Dallas-bound airplane to a safe landing in Philadelphia. Oxygen masks dropped from the cabin ceiling during the incident, according to a public Facebook post shared by Marty Martinez, a passenger on the flight. Bobby Laurie, a former flight attendant and TV show host, shared one of Martinez's photos on Twitter along with

Continue Reading(Corrects second paragraph to remove reference to another passenger almost being sucked out)

By Alwyn Scott and Alana Wise

April 18 (Reuters) - The wrecked engine of a Southwest Airlines Co jet was being examined on Wednesday by U.S. air safety officials investigating why it blew up in mid air, killing a passenger in the country's first deadly airline accident in nine years.

The engine exploded over Pennsylvania about 20 minutes after the Dallas-bound Southwest Flight 1380 left New York's LaGuardia Airport with 149 people on board, sending pieces of shrapnel into the plane. Bank executive Jennifer Riordan, 43, was killed.

Southwest crews were inspecting similar engines the airline had in service, focusing on the 400 to 600 oldest of the CFM56 engines, made by a partnership of France's Safran and General Electric, according to a person with knowledge of the situation. It was the second time that style of engine had failed on a Southwest jet in the past two years, prompting airlines around the world to step up inspections.

A National Transportation Safety Board inspection crew was also combing over the Boeing 737-700 for signs of what caused the engine to explode.

Passengers described scenes of panic as a piece of shrapnel from the engine shattered a window on the aircraft, almost sucking a female passenger out. Witnesses speaking with U.S. media identified Riordan as the passenger nearly sucked out the window.

"The window had broken and the negative pressure had pulled her outside the plane partially," Peggy Phillips, a registered nurse who was on the plane, told WFAA-TV in Dallas. "Two wonderful men ... they managed to get her back inside the plane, and we laid her down and we started CPR."





'MY LAST FEW MOMENTS'

Videos posed on social media showed passengers grabbing for oxygen masks and screaming as the plane, piloted by 56-year-old Tammie Jo Shults, a former fighter pilot for the U.S. Navy, prepared for its descent into Philadelphia.

"All I could think of in that moment was, I need to communicate with my loved ones," passenger Marty Martinez told ABC's Good Morning America on Wednesday. During the incident, he logged on to the plane's in-flight WiFi service to send messages to his family.

"I thought, these are my last few moments on Earth and I want people to know what happened," said Martinez, who live-streamed on Facebook images of passengers in oxygen masks as the plane made a bumpy descent into Philadelphia.

Southwest Airlines experienced an unrelated safety incident early on Wednesday when a Phoenix-bound flight was forced to land at Nashville airport shortly after takeoff because of bird strike.

The airline expected to wrap up its inspection of the engines it was targeting in about 30 days.

The GE-Safran partnership that built the engine said it was sending about 40 technicians to help with Southwest's inspections.

NTSB Chairman Robert Sumwalt said on Tuesday that a preliminary investigation found an engine fan blade missing, having apparently broken off, and that there was metal fatigue at the point where it would normally be attached.

Pieces of the engine including its cowling - the smooth metal exterior that covers its inner workings - were found about 60 miles (97 km) away from Philadelphia airport, Sumwalt said.

Sumwalt said the investigation could take 12 to 15 months to complete. NTSB officials said they would next update the public on their investigation at 4:30 p.m. ET (2030 GMT).

In August 2016, a Southwest flight made a safe emergency landing in Pensacola, Florida, after a fan blade separated from the same type of engine and debris ripped a hole above the left wing. That incident prompted the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to propose last year that similar fan blades undergo ultrasonic inspections and be replaced if they failed.

Riordan's death was the first in a U.S. commercial aviation accident since 2009, according to NTSB statistics.

Riordan was a Wells Fargo banking executive and well-known community volunteer from Albuquerque, New Mexico, the company said. (Reporting by Alwyn Scott, Jonathan Allen and Alana Wise in New York, David Shepardson in Washington and Brendan O'Brien in Milwaukee; Additional reporting by Arunima Banerjee in Bengaluru; Writing by Scott Malone; Editing by Peter Graff, Bernadette Baum and Susan Thomas)A Southwest Airlines flight heading from New York's LaGuardia Airport to Dallas was forced to make an emergency landing at Philadelphia International Airport on Tuesday after experiencing engine issues.

One passenger, whose name has not yet been released, was transported to Penn Presbyterian Medical Center in critical condition and later died, according to investigators. Seven others who sustained minor injuries on board were treated at the scene.

Marty Martinez, who was also aboard Flight 1380, took to social media after the incident to share photos of the severe damage sustained by the aircraft, which included a damaged left engine and one blown-out window.

"Flight 1380 From NYC to Dallas crash landed in Philly," he wrote. "Engine exploded in the air and blew open window 3 seats away from me. Explosion fatally (critically, not sure her status) injured woman sitting in the seat next to the window. Oxygen masked deployed..."

Photos from the incident:

Todd Baur, the father of another passenger on the flight, told KNTV that he believes a piece of the Boeing 737's engine smashed through one of its windows, causing the cabin to depressurize.

Baur also told the outlet that a female passenger was partially "drawn out" of the broken window before being "pulled back in by other passengers." It is unclear if the woman described by Baur was the sole fatality of the incident.

The airline released a statement following the accident.

"Southwest Airlines flight 1380, which departed LaGuardia for Dallas Love Field, diverted to PHL because of an operational event. The plane landed safely. No slides were deployed."Missing sub rumored to have brought Nazis to South America discovered More

A missing German submarine said to have taken the defeated Nazi leadership to South America has been discovered after being lost at sea for nearly 73 years. The U-3523 was one of Hitler’s Type XXI submarines – a new and highly advanced design which came too late to stop an allied victory. It was the first class of U-boats designed to sail submerged for a prolonged period of time and had a range which allowed it to sail non-stop to South America. The U-3523 was thought to have been sunk by a British B24 Liberator attack on May 6, 1945, but the inability to locate the wreck fuelled rumors that it had escaped. Now the wreck has been located ten nautical miles north of Skagen – Denmark’s northernmost

Continue ReadingHero cowboy and firefighter pulled mom who was sucked out of Southwest flight back inside More

Passengers from Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 reached Dallas late Tuesday and described what happened when a plane engine blew apart. One woman died. The plane made an emergency landing in Philadelphia. (April 18) When a woman was sucked out of her window on Southwest Flight 1380, a man wearing a cowboy hat and a firefighter pulled her back inside the plane. The flight traveling from New York City to Dallas suffered an engine failure, and a window exploded. Tim McGinty, wearing a cowboy hat and a bandage around his arm, said he tried to pull Jennifer Riordan inside the plane himself, but couldn't do it alone. He was originally seated across the aisle, a few seats ahead of the window explosion.

Continue ReadingCourtney Padilla thought she was going to die.

She and her family were on the flight Tuesday where an engine exploded, sucking a woman partially out a broken window and killing her.

"We heard this really loud bang, and then the window blew out of the flight, and a lot of screaming started happening," Padilla told ABC affiliate KOAT. "Before we knew what was really going on, you could feel the plane instantly dropping very quickly and the oxygen masks dropped.

"My grandma, my mom, my aunt and my wife were on the plane, and I was just holding my wife's hand, and I just kept telling her, 'We’re gonna die.'"

PHOTO: The woman who died following an engine failure aboard a Southwest flight was identified as New Mexico resident Jennifer Riordan. (Obtained by ABC) More

Padilla and her family were traveling to Dallas from New York aboard Southwest Flight 1380 when the plane had to make an emergency landing in Philadelphia because of engine failure. After the engine exploded, Jennifer Riordan of New Mexico was nearly sucked out the window, hit her head and died, witnesses told ABC News.

"I guess what happened," Padilla said, "is the engine blew up and busted the window, and the lady was actually partially sucked out of the window. I talked to the guy who pulled her back in, and he said that she was at about her waist, out the window, and her head, when she flew out the window, hit the window and she died on impact."

Padilla, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, said a nurse on board also tried to help save Riordan.

The engine on a Southwest Airlines plane is inspected as it sits on the runway at the Philadelphia International Airport after it made an emergency landing in Philadelphia, Tuesday, April 17, 2018. (Amanda Bourman via AP) (The Associated Press) More

PHOTO: A view out the Southwest Airlines plane that made an emergency landing in Philadelphia taken by a passenger, April. 17. 2018. (@EMMS_MrJohnson/Twitter) More

"The entire Southwest Airlines Family is devastated and extends its deepest, heartfelt sympathy to the Customers, employees, family members and loved ones affected by this tragic event," the company said in a statement.

A mixture of glass and ash and the smell of engine smoke began swirling throughout the cabin, but the crew did its best to keep everyone calm, Padilla said.

"The flight attendants immediately were telling us to put on the oxygen, remain calm and to stay in our seats," she said. "You could tell that they were nervous, but they were trying to keep us calm too.

"I thought I was dying. I instantly thought I was dying."

The Padilla family made it to ground unscathed, as the pilot -- a Southwest captain with more than 20 years of flying experience -- landed the Boeing 737 without further incident.

PHOTO: Passengers aboard a Southwest Airlines flight that made an emergency landing at the Philadelphia airport, April 17, 2018. (Marty Martinez/Facebook) More

Seven other passengers suffered minor injuries but weren't hospitalized, officials said. Five crew members and 144 passengers were on board, according to the National Transportation Safety Board. Officials didn't immediately confirm how Riordan died.

NTSB investigators on scene examining damage to the engine of the Southwest Airlines plane. pic.twitter.com/2dyDzOW8pT — NTSB_Newsroom (@NTSB_Newsroom) April 18, 2018

The NTSB and the FAA are investigating the incident.

"Finally, when we hit the ground, there was like a sigh of relief," Padilla said. "Instantly, everybody broke into tears and screaming for joy ... hugging each other, strangers hugging strangers. I've never felt more relieved in my life."Pieces of the engine of a Southwest Airlines plane blew apart Tuesday, piercing through the plane like bullets and shattering a window. One passenger partially sucked out of the plane as others tried desperately to pull her back inside.

Watch TV shows, movies and more on Yahoo View.

About NBC Nightly News

Watch "NBC Nightly News with Lester Holt," providing reports and analysis of the day's most newsworthy national and international events. See More

Check out more stuff on Yahoo ViewMichael Che Points Out the Lies He Told in a "Things You Don't Know About Me" Article …

InterviewJust because youre feeling a bit wild and crazy today doesnt mean you should act on every whim. On the other hand, your current ideas reveal hidden stresses that must be expressed one way or another for them to be relieved. Experiencing an aha! moment may be part of an awakening, but its challenging to smoothly integrate your new perceptions into the present circumstances. Its crucial to moderate extreme reactions because total inaction is as problematic as expressing every impulse. Roman playwright Plautus wrote, In everything, the middle road is best. Get Your Complete Cosmic Profile100,000,000.

After declining for years to disclose how many people pay for Amazon Prime, Amazon (AMZN) CEO Jeff Bezos revealed on Wednesday in his annual letter to shareholders that over 100 million people globally have joined Amazon’s membership club.

“13 years post-launch, we have exceeded 100 million paid Prime members globally,” Bezos wrote.

“In 2017 Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year – both worldwide and in the U.S. Members in the U.S. now receive unlimited free two-day shipping on over 100 million different items.”

Bezos added that same-day and one-day delivery are now on offer to Prime members in 8,000 cities and towns and that Prime Now — which can deliver goods to customers in just hours — is available in 50 cities and nine countries.

Previous estimates had pegged Amazon’s Prime membership at around 90 million, but this number had not been confirmed by the company. Research has also indicated that Prime members spend about $1,300 per year on Amazon.com, $600 more than what the non-Prime Amazon customer spends.

In after hours trade, Amazon shares were up about 1.5% after Bezos’ disclosure.

In previous letters to shareholders, Bezos has discussed Amazon’s goal of making Prime such a good value that customers would be “irresponsible” not to pay for the service, which costs $99 a year in the U.S. and offers two-day free shipping among other benefits for members.

Part of Amazon’s efforts to build its Prime member base has been its investment in Prime Video, its streaming service that competes with Netflix (NFLX) and Hulu, among others.

“Prime Video continues to drive Prime member adoption and retention,” Bezos said in his letter. “In the last year we made Prime Video even better for customers by adding new, award-winning Prime Originals to the service, like The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, winner of two Critics’ Choice Awards and two Golden Globes, and the Oscar-nominated movie The Big Sick.”

Bezos also said that Amazon’s streaming of NFL games on Thursday night accumulated more than 18 million viewers over 11 games. Amazon reportedly paid $50 million to stream NFL games, meaning it cost them about $2.78 for each viewer.

A recent survey from Loop Capital Markets indicated that 23% of Prime members would definitely cancel their membership if streaming were not included.

—

Myles Udland is a writer at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter @MylesUdland

Read more from Myles here:By Sinéad Carew

NEW YORK (Reuters) - The S&P 500 eked out a small gain while the Dow declined after a volatile trading session on Wednesday, with weakness in sectors such as consumer staples and financials offsetting strong gains in the energy and industrial indexes.

Higher oil prices boosted energy stocks while transport stocks such as CSX Corp helped the industrial sector. But IBM's (IBM.N) 7.5 percent drop was the biggest drag on the S&P after the technology company's quarterly profit margins missed Wall Street targets.

"There's a lot of headlines pulling the market in different directions. The most notable is energy prices pulling that sector higher," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise in Boston.

Joy attributed a drop in financial stocks to a flattening yield curve in U.S. treasuries.

"Earnings and the yield curve are the two biggest influences," said Joy, adding that "transports are very strong today which is a very good sign for the economy."

No. 3 U.S. railroad operator CSX (CSX.O) jumped 7.8 percent after topping profit estimates. Its news lifted other railroads, and helped to push the Dow Jones Transport index (.DJT) up 1.7 percent.

Also United Continental (UAL.N) gained 4.8 percent and lifted other airline stocks after reporting a better-than-expected quarterly profit.

Trading was choppy, with the Dow swinging between positive and negative territory while the S&P 500 gave up most of its gains in the last few minutes of trading.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) fell 38.56 points, or 0.16 percent, to 24,748.07, the S&P 500 (.SPX) gained 2.25 points, or 0.08 percent, to 2,708.64 and the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) added 14.14 points, or 0.19 percent, to 7,295.24.

In late afternoon trade the S&P briefly lost ground after a Federal Reserve report said robust business borrowing, rising consumer spending, and tight labor markets indicated the U.S. economy is on track for continued growth, with trade war risks being the one big outlier.

However, Mark Heppenstall, chief investment officer at Penn Mutual Asset Management in Horsham, Pennsylvania, said investors were hopeful for a positive outcome with China.

"China trade tensions seem to have moved to the back burner," he said. "Earnings are part of the equation as well. The bar was high. There was a risk expectations would outpace what comes through but generally earnings have been favorable."

Wall Street expects S&P 500 first-quarter earnings to grow 19.4 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data.

Oil futures (CLc1) settled up 2.9 percent due to a decline in U.S. crude inventories and after sources signaled top exporter Saudi Arabia wants to see crude prices closer to $100 a barrel. The S&P energy sector (.SPNY) was up 1.6 percent. [O/R]

The CBOE Volatility index (.VIX) ended up 0.35 point at 15.60, its first daily increase after six days of declines.

Lam Research (LRCX.O) fell 4 percent on analyst concerns about a slowdown in demand for its chip equipment.

The Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index (.SOX) finished down 1 percent.

Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.26-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.09-to-1 ratio favored advancers.

The S&P 500 posted 39 new 52-week highs and two new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 131 new highs and 36 new lows.

On U.S. exchanges 6.46 billion shares changed hands, compared to the almost 7 billion average for the last 20 days.





(Additional reporting by Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernadette Baum and James Dalgleish)Gas prices have risen this month. And if they rise $1.05 per gallon off their current marks, it would eat the disposable income gains of last year’s tax cut legislation, according to Deutsche Bank analysis.

The national average is now $2.76 a gallon, according to GasBuddy, which is close to the most recent high in mid-2015. A $1 gain per gallon would represent a full return to the soaring prices of 2014, when the average price for a gallon approached $3.70. From 2011 to mid-2014, prices were at this level.

While a $1 increase would be required to cancel out benefits for families of all income levels, lower-income families’ gains would be wiped out much more quickly.

Gas is a bigger percentage of the budget for lower-income Americans. And the tax cut benefits higher-income Americans substantially more. (Deutsche Bank) More

In fact, Deutsche Bank analysts expect this to happen sometime this year for these lower-income groups, as the rise in disposable income gets eclipsed by rising oil and gas prices.

Lower-income families usually spend a higher percentage of their budget on gas, making price changes more pointed. The lowest-earning 20% of American families spend 8% of their household budget on gas and oil. For the top 20%, it’s less than 2%.

But that’s not the only factor. The tax cuts heavily favor wealthier households, giving them more of a push even if they’re paying more in gas. For the bottom 20% of families by income, the tax cut gains are only around $50, according to the U.S. government’s Joint Committee on Taxation. At the same time, a household that earns $200,000 would save $12,000. At 2014 prices — the worst-case of gas prices in recent memory — that would pay for 81,075 miles in a 25 mpg vehicle.

According to Deutsche Bank, the relationship of disposable income and energy has long been a tight one. For every one-cent rise in gas prices, consumer spending on non-energy goods and services has fallen $1.16 billion. So thus far, from last year, analysts are expecting a reduction of income allocated to non-energy stuff to fall by $35 billion.

Gas is cheaper than it was in 2014, but we’re approaching the most expensive point in three years. (Gas Buddy) More

—

Ethan Wolff-Mann is a writer at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter @ewolffmann. Confidential tip line: FinanceTips[at]oath[.com].

Online-only savings accounts are banking’s best-kept secret

What millennial investors should be learning from 2018FILE PHOTO: A Bitcoin logo is seen on a cryptocurrency ATM in Santa Monica, California, U.S., January 4, 2018. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson/File Photo

By Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Cryptocurrency funds were down 29.2 percent in March amid an ongoing slump caused by increased scrutiny from global regulators of the virtual assets, according to a new index launched by data provider BarclayHedge.

The Barclay Cryptocurrency Traders Index was down 43.1 percent in the year to date, after three consecutive monthly losses, BarclayHedge said on Wednesday.

The Cryptocurrency Traders Index, started in 2018, is an equal-weighted index of the monthly returns of 19 funds that trade bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.

Volatile bitcoin hit an all-time high of just under $20,000 in December 2017 and has since fallen to as low as $5,920. On Wednesday, it was up 4.2 percent on the day at $8,232 (BTC=BTSP) on the BitStamp platform.

Cryptocurrencies have been impacted this year by fears of a crackdown from regulators and concerns that they have been in a speculative bubble that is now deflating.

"Folks have their opinions, but no one really knows if it's a bubble or a correction," said Sol Waksman, president and founder of BarclayHedge.

Data from financial technology data tracker Autonomous NEXT also confirm the bear trend.

"There has been a slow-down in ICO (initial coin offering) proceeds that we track ($1 million and over), with a dip in February and a slight pick-up in March in terms of fundraising," Autonomous NEXT said in a report also published this week.

ICOs are a fund-raising mechanism in which start-ups create currencies or tokens and sell them to investors.

"There is also definitely a slow-down in terms of ICOs starting in March. So it seems that the public crowd-funding part of the equation is indeed getting slower, looking like the summer of last year, rather than the frenzy of the fall/winter," London-based Autonomous NEXT said.

The number of new funds in the company's crypto fund tracker has also grown modestly in 2018, it said.

Autonomous NEXT said it is tracking 251 crypto funds.

"The number is not growing as quickly as we'd expect - partly because it's a more difficult environment to raise, and partly because folks are being less vocal about what they're doing," the company said.





(Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss, Editing by Rosalba O'Brien)Refueling your Chevy car or truck is about to get a little easier with the launch of Chevy’s new in-dash payment system. The service, which is being beta tested in Detroit, Seattle and Houston, is part of General Motors’ (GM) Marketplace commerce platform and will allow drivers to pay for their gas from inside their vehicles via their infotainment systems.

The in-dash service will only be available at participating Shell (RDS-A, RDS-B) stations in the near term, but will reach all stations by the end of the year. Chevy says it’s also working with ExxonMobil to bring the service to that company’s gas stations, though no timeline has been announced.

To make in-car payments you’ll have to download and open the Shell app, which will then send your location (without any privately identifiable information) to Shell so it knows which station you’re at.

You then tap “Pay and Save” on your vehicle’s display. After choosing the payment method you want to use, you’ll receive a three-digit code for the pump at which you’ll refuel. Go to the pump, enter the code and you can start refueling. The feature even lets you use your Shell Fuel Rewards program.

The Chevy in-dash payment service in action. More

Chevy says that the in-car payment service will use your vehicle’s built-in 4G LTE connection but won’t require you to sign up for any actual data plans, which is a plus.

The Marketplace in-vehicle app is available on all eligible 2017 and newer Chevy, Cadillac and GMC cars and trucks, and will reach about 4 million vehicles by the end of 2018.

Of course, as convenient as not having to walk into the gas station or pull out your credit card to pay for gas is, you still need to step out of your car to use the actual pump, so it’s not like you’re going to be able to stay in your vehicle the entire time. Unless you’re in New Jersey, that is.

What’s the big benefit? Well, you’ll be able to avoid credit card skimmers that can steal your card information at the pump, and even if you don’t have your card on you, you’ll still be able to pay for gas.

The main reason for the service, though, seems to be that it’s pretty darn cool. In order for it to take off, however, it’s going to need to be faster than just walking over to the pump and swiping or tapping your credit card. If it’s slower, don’t expect many people to use the in-car payment option.

Now if they could just find a way to automate changing my car’s oil, I’ll be set.

More from Dan:

Email Daniel Howley at dhowley@yahoo-inc.com; follow him on Twitter at @DanielHowley.

Follow Yahoo Finance on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedInPersonal income in the United States has been steadily rising. But once bills and the rent are paid, how do consumers spend their discretionary dollars?

Consumers in North America are most likely to spend on technology, according to a new global survey from Acceleration Partners, a UK-based digital marketing agency. A disproportionate amount (34%) of North American respondents said tech-related purchases were their biggest sector spend.

In contrast, Europeans and South Americans value fashion and beauty, with 31% and 17% of respondents, respectively, identifying the sector as the area they spend the most of their extra income.

Asians prioritize food and drink, with 16% of respondents stating that they spend the majority of their discretionary income on wining and dining.

Chiang Mai, Thailand – Asians spend most of their extra income on food. More

Australians, on the other hand, prioritize travel, with 24% of respondents claiming they spend their leftover income on both domestic and international travel. Eighteen percent of African respondents said they spend most of their extra income on leisure pursuits.

Story ContinuesDavid Hogg, an 18-year-old high school senior and survivor of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, is now an outspoken gun law activist. He took to Twitter on Tuesday to encourage a boycott of BlackRock (BLK) and The Vanguard Group.

BlackRock, Invesco (IVZ) and Vanguard are the top three institutional holders of American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), the parent company of Smith & Wesson Corp., one of the world’s largest gun manufacturers. BlackRock and Vanguard are also the largest holders of gunmaker Sturm Ruger (RGR).

Many of these funds are passively managed, which means companies like American Outdoor Brands and Sturm Ruger are in their portfolios because they are part of major stock market indexes.

Earlier this month, BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, announced that it would offer two new exchange-traded funds and new index-tracking products for pensions and 401(k) plans that exclude stocks of gunmakers and large gun retailers. This was in response to the mounting pressure from customers urging Wall Street to take a stand on the gun debate.

The new funds will not invest in American Outdoor Brands, Sturm Ruger, Walmart (WMT), Dick’s Sporting Goods (DKS), Kroger (KR), and Vista Outdoor (VSTO), a BlackRock spokesperson told CNBC.

Vanguard offers the FTSE Social Index Fund, which screens companies based on social and environmental criteria, excluding gun manufacturers.

But, Hogg is not satisfied with these auxiliary options and is encouraging his 764,000 followers to boycott holding groups like Vanguard and BlackRock.

In a statement to Yahoo Finance, a Vanguard spokesperson said the firm “shares many individuals’ concerns about public safety and firearm access and hopes that policymakers take appropriate action to protect Americans from gun violence. Schools, churches and public spaces should always be safe places for all individuals.”

“Vanguard is taking action, meeting with the leaders of gun manufacturers and distributors. We want to know how they will mitigate the risks that their products pose and how they plan to help prevent such tragedies from happening again. We believe that boards and managements of gun manufacturers should disclose and reduce the risks associated with gun violence and the ongoing national debate on gun safety and control. We believe that when a business poses a risk to society, it can also pose a risk to investors. We are expressing this viewpoint directly with company leaders because we believe greater focus and transparency on these issues will ultimately benefit society and investors alike,” she added.

Hogg started a similar campaign last month when Fox News host Laura Ingraham mocked his college rejection letters. Ingraham lost 27 advertisers and took a weeklong hiatus after Hogg’s tweet and the subsequent movement spearheaded by progressive group Media Matters for America. However, “The Ingraham Angle” saw its highest ratings ever after the boycott.

—

Melody Hahm is a senior writer at Yahoo Finance, covering entrepreneurship, technology and real estate. Follow her on Twitter @melodyhahm.

Read more:Parkland shooting survivor David Hogg announced two new boycotts on Tuesday, against financial services providers Blackrock and Vanguard Group.

“@blackrock and @Vanguard_Group are two of the biggest investors in gun manufacturers; if you use them, feel free to let them know. Thanks,” Hogg tweeted, tagging both companies to prompt a Twitter storm of reactions.

“#BoycottVanguard #BoycottBlackrock,” the student activist added for emphasis.

Also Read: Parkland Student Activist David Hogg Teases Another Boycott: 'Stay Tuned'





.@blackrock and @Vanguard_Group are two of the biggest investors in gun manufacturers; if you use them, feel free to let them know. Thanks ???? — David Hogg (@davidhogg111) April 17, 2018









Representatives for both Vanguard and Blackrock did not immediately respond to TheWrap’s request for comment.

Hogg raised no shortage of eyebrows on Monday after teasing a new boycott. The story whipped around the web as jittery gun rights advocates held their breath.

Also Read: SlimFast Is 21st Sponsor to Drop Laura Ingraham's Show After David Hogg Uproar

The teenage gun control advocate has become a force to be reckoned since launching a ferocious advertiser boycott against Fox News host Laura Ingraham, after the conservative firebrand made fun of him on Twitter. So far, Hogg’s campaign against Ingraham has cost her more than two dozen advertisers.

Despite his earlier success, Hogg faces a much steeper climb in his quest to damage the financial titans. While Ingraham and Fox News were already lighting rods of consumer-facing controversy, Blackrock and Vanguard are far less well-known. Hogg’s boycott call has so far failed to take off in the same way as his call against Ingraham and has even come within a few hundred comments of being ratioed.

Related stories from TheWrap:

Parkland Student Activist David Hogg Teases Another Boycott: 'Stay Tuned'

Here Are the 27 Advertisers David Hogg Convinced to Dump Laura Ingraham

SlimFast Is 21st Sponsor to Drop Laura Ingraham's Show After David Hogg Uproar

Sinclair Host Resigns After Threat to Sexually Assault David Hogg With 'Hot Poker'The last few weeks haven’t exactly been that great for investors. Thanks to a variety of factors, volatility has returned with a vengeance and we’ve actually seen some big intraday price swings and declines. In fact, the S&P 500 is barely positive on the year and is more than 6% below its peak reached at the end of January. And that decline has hit all matter of equities.

This includes some pretty great dividend stocks.

There are now plenty of dividend stocks that have wonderful long-term futures that have only been blurred by the recent downturn and volatility. There’s nothing wrong with them, their cash flows or other important dividend-related metrics. It’s simply a case of overall market volatility hitting hem hard. For patient investors, snagging up shares of these stocks now and collecting their dividends makes a ton of sense.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

With that, here are five recently unsteady dividend stocks with great futures.





Dividend Stocks That Will Win Longer Term: 3M Co (MMM)

3M MMM stock More

Source: Dean Hochman via Flickr (Modified)

Dividend Yield: 2.5%

After being one of the Dow’s biggest gainers last year, global industrial giant 3M Co (NYSE:MMM) has turned into a real loser in 2018. Shares of the former Minnesota Metals & Mining are down over $30 per share since hitting their peak back in January. However, that drop could be exactly what investors need to start buying 3M in spades.

Despite the recent trade war issues, 3M’s global focus and mega-sized product catalog are exactly what investors want over the long haul. This allows its profit from a variety of regions and sectors — no matter who/what is doing well. This broad net has allowed 3M to continue to reap higher cash flows. Last year, free cash flows came in at $6.2 billion.

With the strengthening global economy and 3M’s focus on higher-margined products in healthcare and industrial applications, there’s no reason why the firm couldn’t continue to deliver on similar free cash flows. And its management is counting on that fact.

3M has long been one of the best dividend stocks, but with a 16% jump in its payout this year and its drop in price, shares now yield a 2.5% — a mark not seen in years.

For investors, 3M’s long-term is certainly rosy, while the price is right in the near term.





Dividend Stocks That Will Win Longer Term: UPS (UPS)

ups stock More

Source: Mike Mozart Via Flickr

Dividend Yield: 3.3%

Rising online sales have been a boon for logistics giant United Parcel Service, Inc. (NYSE:UPS). Except there is one problem — there have been too many online packages. UPS has continued to suffer as the lumpiness of online ordering has hurt margins and its bottom lines And that lumpiness has actually caused major customers like Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) to consider other delivery options.

As a result, UPS stock has plunged in a big way.

But the outlook is still pretty good for UPS and the recent dip could offer a big buying opportunity.

For starters, rising online sales is still benefiting the firm, and while it can’t squeeze Amazon on pricing, it can for smaller firms. That should help its bottom line overall and reduce the damage. Secondly, rising business shipping — thanks to the growing economy — is also helping. Add in a dose of tech spending and UPS’s outlook is much brighter. Analysts expect the firm to earn 7.29% more in earnings per share next year based on these trends.

With a forward P/E of just 15 and a 3.3% dividend yield, UPS is priced for perfection after the drop.

Story ContinuesZytronic, S&U, and A & J Mucklow Group all share one thing in common. They are on our list of top paying dividend stocks which have helped grow my portfolio income over the past couple of months. A sizeable part of portfolio returns can be produced by dividend stocks due to their contribution to compounding returns in the long run. Today I will share with you my best paying dividend shares you should be considering for your portfolio.

Zytronic plc (AIM:ZYT)

Zytronic plc, together with its subsidiaries, develops and manufactures interactive touch sensor products. Started in 1999, and currently lead by Mark Cambridge, the company now has 190 employees and with the market cap of GBP £70.59M, it falls under the small-cap group.

ZYT has a substantial dividend yield of 4.32% and their payout ratio stands at 65.51% , with the expected payout in three years being 85.81%. ZYT has increased its dividend from UK£0.03 to UK£0.19 over the past 10 years. They have been dependable too, not missing a single payment in this time. The company has a lower PE ratio than the GB Electronic industry, which interested investors would be happy to see. The company’s PE is currently 15.2 while the industry is sitting higher at 16.8. More detail on Zytronic here.

AIM:ZYT Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

S&U plc provides consumer credit and motor finance services in the United Kingdom. Started in 1938, and now run by Anthony Coombs, the company employs 140 people and with the market cap of GBP £285.97M, it falls under the small-cap category.

SUS has a great dividend yield of 4.40% and pays out 51.52% of its profit as dividends . Over the past 10 years, SUS has increased its dividends from UK£0.32 to UK£1.05. The company has been a dependable payer too, not missing a payment in this 10 year period. Continue research on S&U here.

LSE:SUS Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

A & J Mucklow Group Plc (LSE:MKLW)

A&J Mucklow Group Plc is a long established Midlands based property company focusing on the long term ownership and development of industrial and commercial property. Founded in 1933, and headed by CEO David Parker, the company provides employment to 11 people and with the company’s market cap sitting at GBP £344.96M, it falls under the small-cap category.

MKLW has a enticing dividend yield of 4.06% and their current payout ratio is 28.16% , with analysts expecting the payout ratio in three years to be 89.37%. The company’s DPS has increased from UK£0.16 to UK£0.22 over the last 10 years. They have been reliable as well, ensuring that shareholders haven’t missed a payment during this 10 year period. The company recorded earnings growth of 153.27% in the past year, comparing favorably with the gb reits industry average of 84.21%. More on A & J Mucklow Group here.

Story ContinuesHolding a stake in great businesses that regularly pay dividends and then reinvesting those payouts is one of the most dependable paths to long-term wealth creation. The challenge, then, is finding companies that are positioned to sustain a high level of performance and keep that returned income flowing while also shoring up the future of the business.

With that in mind, we asked three Motley Fool investors to identify a top high-yield stock that's worth holding forever. Read on to see why they picked UBS (NYSE: UBS), International Business Machines (NYSE: IBM), and AT&T (NYSE: T).

A golden piggy bank standing in front of three stacks of golden coins, ascending in size from left to right. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Safe as a Swiss bank -- because it is one

Rich Smith (UBS): How high is a "high yield?" Does nearly twice the average dividend payout on the S&P 500 qualify? Because if it does, then UBS Group AG just might be the stock you're looking for.

UBS pays a 3.9% dividend yield, which seems pretty high to me, given that the average stock on the S&P pays just 2%. Admittedly, right now UBS doesn't look like it should be paying so much out in dividend checks, as "3.9%" is about 122% more money than UBS actually earned last year. But here's the thing -- and here's why I think UBS stock might be worth a look despite its high payout ratio and similarly high P/E ratio (currently 61 times earnings).

Last year, UBS's profits got hit by the one-two punch of a $1.2 billion restructuring charge, and a $4.2 billion income tax bill. That tax bite, however, was much more than UBS had paid in any of the previous five years. In fact, it was more than UBS paid in all of the previous five years combined. As such, it seems likely that last year's tax hit was a one-time thing related primarily to the effects of tax reform in the U.S., and not likely to repeat in future years. Going forward, I think it more likely we'll see UBS turn in annual profits closer to the $3.2 billion it earned in 2016 -- or even the $6.2 billion it earned in 2015 -- than the $1.1 billion it earned last year.

With a corporate history stretching back more than 150 years, UBS is a bank stock built to stand the test of time -- and to keep on paying you dividends forever.

A century of dividends

Tim Green (International Business Machines): IBM investors have missed out on the raging bull market in technology stocks. While the Nasdaq 100 index has more than doubled over the past five years, shares of IBM have shed about 25% of their value. A half-decade of slumping revenue kept many investors away from the century-old tech giant.

That decline is now over, with IBM reporting revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 2017 and expecting growth to continue this year. The actions that the company has taken over the past five years or so, including investing in growth businesses like cloud computing and artificial intelligence, are starting to show tangible results. Growth businesses generated $36.5 billion of revenue last year, up 11%, while the cloud business grew by 24% to $17 billion.

A technology company doesn't survive for more than a century without building up a track record of transformation. IBM's latest turnaround isn't its first, and it won't be its last. This ability to adapt is a key reason to buy and hold the stock.

For dividend investors, another reason to buy and hold the stock is a world-class dividend. IBM's current quarterly payout of $1.50 per share works out to a yield of 3.8%, and the company is widely expected to raise that dividend this month, making it 23 years in row. IBM has paid a quarterly dividend without interruption since 1916, through the Great Depression, two World Wars, and its near-collapse in the 1990s.1 in 20 Americans Is a Millionaire. Here’s How You Can Become 1 of Them More

Who wants to be a millionaire? You do, so find out how. Here are the strategies that will help the average Americans get rich.If you're falling behind on your retirement savings, you're not alone. Roughly 61% of Americans have less than $100,000 in total savings, and around 42% of those people have saved $10,000 or less, according to a recent GoBankingRates survey.

The No. 1 reason people gave for not having much stashed away? That they don't earn enough money to be able to save anything.

Broken piggy bank with coins falling out More

Image source: Getty Images.

No matter how much money you make, it's important to save for retirement unless you plan to work the rest of your life. The good news is that even small contributions to your retirement fund can add up over time, so even if you're not loaded with cash, you can still beef up your nest egg by the time you retire.

Starting small is better than not starting at all

Through the power of compound interest, your savings can grow exponentially over time -- which means that the earlier you start saving, the better. And if you start early enough, even the smallest contributions can ultimately grow to hundreds of thousands of dollars.

For example, say you're just starting out saving and can contribute $50 per month. If you're earning a 7% annual rate of return on your investments, that $50 per month can turn into around $124,275 over 40 years. Granted, that may not be enough to last you through retirement, but it's infinitely better than not contributing anything and ending up with zero retirement savings.

Also, by waiting even a few years to start saving, you'll have a much more difficult time catching up. In this instance, if you're saving $50 per month, waiting just five years to start saving will leave you with just $86,054, rather than $124,275 had you started saving earlier -- a difference of nearly $40,000.

If you start early enough, even big savings goals are more achievable. For instance, say you want to have $500,000 saved by the time you turn 65. If you're earning a 7% rate of return on your investments each year, here's how much you'd have to save every month to meet that goal depending on when you start saving:

Age You Start Saving Contributions per Month Total Savings at Age 65 25 $200 $497,102 35 $425 $499,827 45 $980 $500,198 55 $2,900 $498,855

This is not to say that if you get a late start that it's not worth saving at all; even a small retirement fund is better than no retirement savings at all. But if you're stuck in the starting gate because you're worried small contributions are worthless, it's better to put whatever you can toward your retirement fund while time is on your side.

The 401(k): Your secret weapon

If you have access to a 401(k) through your employer with matching contributions, take full advantage of it. Those matching contributions from your employer can double your savings, creating even bigger gains over time.

For example, say you're earning $40,000 per year, and your employer will match 100% of your contributions up to 3% of your salary -- or up to $1,200 per year. If you contribute $1,200 per year yourself (or $100 per month), that brings your total yearly savings to $2,400. At that rate, assuming a 7% annual rate of return on your savings, you'll have around $512,663 saved after 40 years. Not bad for contributing what amounts to around $3 per day.

Even if you can't contribute enough to earn the full employer match, every little bit counts -- after all, not contributing anything is essentially leaving free money on the table. If you're contributing, say, $50 per month (or $600 per year) and your employer matches that $600 per year, you'll end up with just over $250,000 after 40 years. Again, not too bad for making relatively small contributions each month.

When you're focused on just paying the bills each month, saving for retirement may be the last thing on your mind. But you don't need a lot of money to build up your retirement fund, because even baby steps will take you a long way over the course of your career.

More From The Motley Fool

The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.By Rania El Gamal and Alex Lawler

DUBAI/LONDON (Reuters) - Top oil exporter Saudi Arabia would be happy to see crude rise to $80 or even $100 a barrel, three industry sources said, a sign Riyadh will seek no changes to an OPEC supply-cutting deal even though the agreement's original target is within sight.

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and several other producers began to reduce supply in January 2017 in an attempt to erase a glut. They have extended the pact until December 2018 and meet in June to review policy.

OPEC is closing in on the original target of the pact - reducing industrialised nations' oil inventories to their five-year average. There is no indication yet, however, that Saudi Arabia or its allies want to wind down the supply cut.

Over the past year, Saudi Arabia has emerged as OPEC's leading supporter of measures to boost prices, a change from its more moderate stance in earlier years. Iran, once a keen OPEC price hawk, now wants lower prices than Saudi Arabia.

Industry sources have linked this shift in Saudi Arabia's stance to its desire to support the valuation of state oil company Aramco ahead of the kingdom's planned sale of a minority stake in an initial public offering.

The supply cut has helped boost oil prices this year to $73 a barrel, the highest since November 2014. Oil began a slide from above $100 - a price that Saudi Arabia endorsed in 2012 - in mid-2014, when growing supply from rival sources such as U.S. shale began to swamp the market.

But the kingdom wants the rally to go further. Two industry sources said a desired crude price of $80 or even $100 was circulated by senior Saudi officials in closed-door briefings in recent weeks.

"We have come full circle," a separate high-level industry source said of the change in Saudi thinking. "I would not be surprised if Saudi Arabia wanted oil at $100 until this IPO is out of the way."

Once the Aramco share sale is done, Riyadh would still want higher prices to help fund initiatives such as Vision 2030, an economic reform plan championed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

"Saudi Arabia wants higher oil prices and yes, probably for the IPO, but it isn't just that," an OPEC source said.

"Look at the economic reforms and projects they want to do, and the war in Yemen. How are they going to pay for all that? They need higher prices."

To be sure, OPEC and Saudi Arabia have no official price target and say the objective of the production cut is to balance supply and demand, and reduce the inventory glut.

But guidance on preferred price levels comes from officials speaking off the record, and from industry sources who have discussed the issue with Saudi officials.

"I personally think that now $70 is the floor for oil prices," a second OPEC source said. "But OPEC is unlikely to make any changes in June, maybe by the end of the year. The market still needs support."





TALKS IN JEDDAH

OPEC and its partners meet on June 22 to review policy and before then a ministerial monitoring panel gathers in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on April 20.

By OPEC's parameters, the deal has worked. Oil stocks in developed economies in February stood a mere 43 million barrels above the latest five-year average, down from 340 million barrels above in January 2017.

The cuts have been even bigger than those specified in the deal, thanks in part to a slide in Venezuelan production due to an economic crisis in the South American country.

Compliance has reached 150 percent, according to OPEC, meaning the organisation's members have cut production by about 1.8 million barrels per day, 600,000 bpd more than pledged.

Few OPEC sources call for an exit strategy. Most officials are talking of introducing additional inventory metrics to assess the success of the deal, and of a need to support investment in new production to avert any supply crunch.

The impression is that oil prices are seen as not yet high enough to encourage sufficient oil investment.

"We will know what will be the good price when the market is balanced and we have enough investments," the United Arab Emirates' energy minister, Suhail al-Mazroui, told Reuters last week. "We need to have more investments coming."

The Jeddah meeting of the Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee is unlikely to change the parameters for assessing the deal's success, Mazroui and other OPEC officials said, and sources see little chance of a major tweak in June.

"Even if we reach the five-year average before June, it does not mean we just go and open the taps," a third OPEC source said. "We have to test it."





(Editing by Dale Hudson)Steve Wynn, the embattled former CEO of Wynn resorts, resolved a longstanding fight with his ex-wife, Elaine, over claims that he violated the terms of their shareholders’ agreement.

Elaine Wynn also agreed to release the company and its general counsel, Kim Sinatra, from breach of contract allegations, Wynn Resorts said. In return, Sinatra and Wynn Resorts dropped their claims against her.

Neither Wynn Resorts nor Sinatra paid any money to Elaine Wynn, though Steve Wynn is said to have paid her an undisclosed amount, according to The Wall Street Journal.

The battle, which had been ongoing for six years, involved claims that Elaine Wynn had been wrongfully removed from the company’s board of directors. There was also an agreement between the pair and an ex-business partner that prevented any of the parties from selling their shares without permission from the others, which was dissolved last month.

Late last month, the casino mogul sold his remaining shares in Wynn Resorts, netting him more than $2.1 billion. He owned a 12% stake in the company, which he founded. The businessman faces allegations of sexual misconduct and resigned as chairman and CEO of the company in early February. He has denied any wrongdoing.

Steve and Elaine Wynn, who divorced in 2010, came to an agreement in court that allows both to unwind their collective 21% stake, worth $4 billion.

Elaine Wynn is now the company’s largest shareholder, owning a stake worth more than 9%.

Related ArticlesRobert Nardelli, former General Electric insider, discusses what new GE CEO John Flannery needs to do to turn the company around.U.S. first quarter earnings supported the market, though the composition of gains for banks and financials has drawn scrutiny, says Scott Nations of NationsShares.Investing.com - JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM) says first-quarter earnings will be better than expected, driven by more than the benefit of lower corporate taxes.In a note to clients, the Wall Street firm said it expects earnings to rise by 21%, well above the consensus forecast of 17.5%.JPMorgan says earnings will be lifted by a host of economic factors, including rising disposable income and consumer confidence.The firm says strong corporate profits and record share buybacks will drive stock prices higher, after a unusually volatile period in which the market suffered two corrections in a little more than a month.Earnings rose just under 15% in the fourth quarter and are forecast to grow by 18.5% for all of 2018.Facebook could have to pay 'billions' in damages in class action lawsuit over facial recognition (FB)

Facebook faces a class-action lawsuit over its use of facial recognition technology to tag people in photos.

The decision by a US district judge means the company could be sued by millions of US users.

According to the judge's order, damages could rack up to billions of dollars if Facebook loses.

Facebook said the case has no merit.



Facebook could have to pay billions of dollars in damages in a class action lawsuit over facial recognition, according to various reports.

US District Judge James Donato ruled that Facebook can be sued by three Illinois users who claim the firm gathered biometric data through facial recognition without their explicit consent.

They are referring to Facebook's "tag suggestions" feature, which uses facial recognition to suggest which friends to tag in a photo.

Facebook facial recognition tag suggestions More

Facebook/Business Insider

The three users have sued under an Illinois state law called the Biometric Information Privacy Act, which affords certain people protections over information such as fingerprints, retina scans, and facial recognition data.

Donato's decision to classify the suit as a class action means Facebook could be sued by millions of users in the state. In his order, Donato wrote: "Facebook seems to believe ... statutory damages could amount to billions of dollars."

The suit wants damages of up to $5,000 (£3,482) for every time a person's image was used without their permission. If the suit is successful, every person in the class-action could receive a payout.

Facebook said the case had no merit. "We continue to believe the case has no merit and will defend ourselves vigorously," the company said in a statement, cited by Reuters.

The facial recognition feature isn't currently available in the UK. Facebook switched the feature off in Europe in 2012 after an audit by Ireland's data watchdog.

The company is now trying to roll out facial recognition technology inside the EU again, according to the Irish Times, but on an opt-in basis.

NOW WATCH: The top 10 games coming in 2018

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Facebook investors want to seize a golden opportunity to force out Mark Zuckerberg as chairmanFILE - In this May 16, 2012, file photo, the Facebook logo is displayed on an iPad in Philadelphia. A propaganda expert who has studied Cambridge Analytica says the company helped Donald Trump’s presidential campaign use false statements and anti-Muslim messages to spread fear and resentment in swing states he needed to win. Cambridge Analytica did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment from The Associated Press on the submission. However, it has denied it used the data scraped from an app that obtained material from Facebook users in the Trump campaign. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke, File)

LONDON (AP) -- Facebook is enhancing privacy safeguards for users around the world as it complies with new European rules designed to make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.

Facebook is introducing the new policies this week in Europe, but eventually everyone on the social network will be asked to decide whether they want to enable features like facial recognition and some types of targeted advertising, the company said in a blog post.

"Everyone - no matter where they live - will be asked to review important information about how Facebook uses data and make choices about their privacy on Facebook," the company said in a blog post. "We'll begin by rolling these choices out in Europe this week."

The announcement comes as Facebook struggles with the fallout from revelations that a data analytics firm misused personal information from as many as 87 million Facebook accounts to help Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. The European Union next month will begin enforcing its new General Data Protection Regulation, which explicitly applies to any company that uses the data of EU residents, no matter where it is based.

The privacy law is the latest attempt by EU regulators to rein in mostly American tech giants who they blame for avoiding tax, stifling competition and encroaching on digital privacy rights. The EU says the rules are the most important change in data privacy regulation in a generation as it tries to catch up with technological advances since 1995, when the last comprehensive rules were approved.

The EU rules require consent forms to be written in plain language anyone can understand, as the EU targets the legalese buried in pages of terms and conditions that few users actually read before clicking "I Agree." The regulations also require that consent must be as easy to withdraw as it is to give.

As part of the changes, Facebook users in Europe and Canada will for the first time be able to opt into the network's facial recognition technology, which has been available in most other parts of the world for the past six years, the company said.

Users will also be asked whether they want to allow Facebook to use data from partners such as apps and websites to tailor the ads they see, and whether they want to share political, religious or relationship information from their profiles.

"We not only want to comply with the law, but also go beyond our obligations to build new and improved privacy experiences for everyone on Facebook," the company said.

Meanwhile, the European Parliament renewed its call for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about the data privacy scandal, after Zuckerberg offered to send a subordinate in his place.

In a letter to Zuckerberg on Wednesday, the EU assembly's president, Antonio Tajani, said that Europeans hit by the "scandal deserve a full and thorough explanation from Facebook's top manager."Facebook stopped using the feature in Europe in 2012 but has tested it recently - AP

A judge in California has ruled that Facebook will have to face a class action suit over allegations it violated users' privacy by using a facial recognition tool on their photos without their explicit consent.

The ruling comes as the social network is snared in a scandal over the mishandling of 87 million users' data ahead of the 2016 US presidential election.

The facial recognition tool, launched in 2010, suggests names for people it identifies in photos uploaded by users - a function which the plaintiffs claim runs afoul of Illinois state law on protecting biometric privacy.

Judge James Donato ruled the claims by Illinois residents Nimesh Patel, Adam Pezen, and Carlo Licata were "sufficiently cohesive to allow for a fair and efficient resolution on a class basis.

"Consequently, the case will proceed with a class consisting of Facebook users located in Illinois for whom Facebook created and stored a face template after June 7, 2011," he said, according to the ruling.

Facial recognition tech is one of the biggest privacy concerns Credit: Julian Simmonds More

A Facebook spokeswoman said the company was reviewing the decision, adding: "We continue to believe the case has no merit and will defend ourselves vigorously."

Facebook also contends it has been very open about the tool since its inception and allows users to turn it off and prevent themselves from being suggested in photo tags.

The technology was suspended for users in Europe in 2012 over privacy fears, but this year it began a trial of the technology that it believes complies with new data laws.

Technology intelligence - newsletter promo - EOA

Also on Monday, Facebook confirmed that it collected information from people beyond their social network use.

"When you visit a site or app that uses our services, we receive information even if you're logged out or don't have a Facebook account," product management director David Baser said in a post on the social network's blog.

Baser said "many" websites and apps use Facebook services to target content and ads, including via the social network's Like and Share buttons, when people use their Facebook account to log into another website or app and Facebook ads and measurement tools.

But he stressed the practice was widespread, with companies such as Google and Twitter also doing the same.AT&T Inc. signage is displayed at the company\'s store in the Times Square area of New York, U.S., on Saturday, Oct. 22, 2016. According to a statement Saturday, AT&T agreed to buy Time Warner for $107.50 a share. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg

AT&T Inc. and Time Warner Inc. may have gained an edge in the biggest merger trial in decades as the companies have exposed weaknesses in the Trump administration’s antitrust lawsuit to block their $85 billion merger, according to lawyers and economists following the battle.

As the U.S. rested its case Tuesday in the fifth week of the trial, AT&T and Time Warner have poked holes in the Justice Department’s claim that the deal would give them the power to raise prices on cable and satellite-TV competitors, and disadvantage competitors by coordinating with Comcast Corp., a major rival that went through a similar merger when it bought NBCUniversal.

More from Bloomberg.com: CIA Chief Pompeo Met Kim to Lay Ground for Trump Summit

On Wednesday, the corporate titans themselves will face off against the government’s antitrust enforcers with Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes expected to take the stand, followed by AT&T’s CEO Randall Stephenson on Thursday.

At the heart of the case is this: AT&T, which owns DirecTV, is the biggest pay-TV company in the U.S., while Time Warner’s Turner Broadcasting is the owner of numerous popular networks including CNN, TBS and TNT. The U.S. claims the combination is a recipe to raise prices for subscribers of AT&T’s competitors by more than $400 million a year.

More from Bloomberg.com: Jet Engine That Exploded Had Signs of Metal Weakness, U.S. Says

And all of this, the U.S. says, risks stunting the entrance of newer companies that threaten the traditional cable model, including streaming services such as Dish Network Corp.’s Sling TV that offer smaller bundles of networks to consumers seeking new ways to watch.

Attacked Centerpiece

AT&T and Time Warner have assailed the government’s case. Lead defense attorney Daniel Petrocelli and his team, over days of cross-examinations of the Justice Department’s witnesses, attacked the centerpiece of the case: a detailed study by economist Carl Shapiro, a former Justice Department official now at the University of California at Berkeley. Shapiro’s model and the data that went into predicting the price increases are unreliable, the companies say.

More from Bloomberg.com: Billionaire Banking Heir Matthew Mellon Dies at 54

The government’s model is highly theoretical and ignores some real-world facts, said Andre Barlow, an antitrust lawyer at Doyle Barlow & Mazard PLLC in Washington.

"It’s really theory versus economic and business realities," said Barlow, who isn’t involved in the case and thinks the government is having a tough time.

Investors have become more confident AT&T will win, based on the difference between the offer price of $104.56 and Time Warner’s share price. The spread is lower than when the lawsuit was filed in November and has declined since the trial started last month.

The government’s antitrust chief, Makan Delrahim, who made the decision to file the lawsuit last year, is sounding confident. When he was asked last week at a conference in Washington about whether losing the AT&T case would make it more difficult to challenge similar deals that don’t combine direct competitors, he said:

"We’re not going to lose."

The challenge for the Justice Department is that the inputs Shapiro used for his model to predict the price increases carry a lot of uncertainty, said Hal Singer, an economist at consulting firm Economists Inc. One of those inputs is how many subscribers would leave a cable or satellite-TV company if Time Warner’s Turner channels are pulled from the distributor and how many would switch to DirecTV. That’s a factor in how much leverage AT&T would have in programming negotiations. AT&T’s economic expert Dennis Carlton testified that tweaking those inputs slightly would push Shapiro’s predicted price increase to zero.

"The problem for the judge is you want to get comfortable that this estimate is basically bulletproof, said Singer, who isn’t involved in the case. "Even if you believe all of his inputs, they are all estimated with error, every one of them."

Judge’s Skepticism

Even U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, who is overseeing the trial, has expressed some skepticism about the government’s case. At the end of Shapiro’s testimony, Leon said he was "confused" about how Shapiro calculated the price increase to pay-TV subscribers. Shapiro tried to explain, and the judge still didn’t appear satisfied.

Story ContinuesTestifying today in the trial of the government’s lawsuit seeking to block its merger with AT&T, Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes painted a grim picture of the threat posed by tech giants, especially Facebook, Google and Amazon.

What Bewkes described as “tectonic changes” introduced by the companies, as well as Netflix and others over the past give years, are grounded in the amount of data they can gather about viewers. Time Warner, comparatively, is in the dark. “We know how many people are watching” networks such as HBO or TNT, he said. “But we don’t know their names. Our direct competitors do. …. They know all sorts of things that we don’t.” He hammered home that point on the advertising side, highlighting gains by digital players in a remarkably self-effacing display by a media executive on the eve of the upfronts, where the theme will be TV’s reliability and reach in a time of dubious data practices.

Building the infrastructure needed to match the data capabilities of tech companies programming and advertising direct to consumers instead of through middlemen or wholesalers is far too arduous, he said. “You need retail centers, call centers, customer service,” he said. Even when launching HBO Now, he said, the company relied on Amazon and Google for customer acquisition and other key business functions. And in the end, while HBO has evolved into a decent complement to the mother ship. “we still don’t know what those companies about their audiences.” An ad for a Chevrolet, he said, is shotgunned out to millions of viewers on Turner, whereas it can be served to a specific digital consumer who is looking to buy a Chevrolet, has good credit, lives in a certain part of the country, and so on.

During a brief recess, an attorney for the Department of Justice loudly mocked Bewkes in the hallway, within feet of reporters. “It’s like Doug and Wendy Whiner!” he said, evoking the 1970s Saturday Night Live sketch. “Competition is so hard!”

Testimony led by defense attorney Daniel Petrocelli lasted nearly two hours. The Department of Justice is poised to cross-examine Bewkes later this afternoon. AT&T entertainment chief John Stankey is slated to follow Bewkes, possibly before the close of business at 2:30PM PT.

Time Warner needs to combine with AT&T, Bewkes argued, because it would enable the companies to “get through for the next round” of intense media evolution. “It wasn’t that we weren’t trying to do these things before the merger. We were. Maybe we could get there without it. … But this was the fastest way.”

While still not as “rich” as the data controlled by the largest tech companies, AT&T’s data capabilities would transform Time Warner and have net benefits to consumers, Bewkes said. “The more you know about viewers,” he said. “The more it informs your programming. … It helps you understand how to optimize” everything from production to marketing to distribution.

Under questioning from Petrocelli, Bewkes patiently walked through several foundational aspects of his day-to-day business. Carriage deals. Skinny bundles. Direct-to-consumer apps. As Petrocelli stood at the lectern about 20 feet away, Bewkes often faced the judge, gesturing to emphasize his points and trying to explain the complexities of a changing world with as much clarity and patience as possible. It had the look of a first-class airplane passenger being asked what he does for a living. Judge Richard J. Leon, who is hearing the case without a jury, did not interject with any questions during the whole time Bewkes was on the stand. Observers in the courtroom are conflicted over how he will come to view the larger arguments being made in both directions, especially the key premise that AT&T and Time Warner are dwarfed by tech companies. Leon is not a fan of certain technology in the courtroom, certainly – a running joke in the month-old trial has been his disdain for PowerPoint decks. (Attorneys have propped up oversized poster boards on an easel instead.)

One of the cornerstones of the government’s suit is that it would harm consumers and rival companies, in part because it would raise fees but also because it would hamper innovation. Asked by Petrocelli to point to innovations that occurred when Time Warner Cable and Turner were both under the same roof, from 1995 to 2009. Bewkes, who started his career at HBO in 1979 in a junior sales and marketing role, pointed to the “multiplex” that allows viewers to see a dozen separate channels all broadcasting various iterations of HBO at the same time, and video on demand (VOD).Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes arrives ahead of arguments in the trial to determine if AT&T's merger with Time Warner is legal under antitrust law at U.S. District Court in Washington, U.S., March 22, 2018. REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

By Diane Bartz

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Time Warner <TWX.N> Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes on Wednesday defended his company's planned merger with AT&T <T.N> as necessary to compete effectively for advertising with internet giants like Google and Facebook.

Bewkes told Judge Richard Leon, who will decide if the $84.5 billion deal may go forward, that the Justice Department was wrong to say a merger would allow Time Warner to push for blackouts in negotiations with pay TV operators who wanted to show their content in order to allow AT&T subsidiary DirecTV to pick up more customers.

"I think it's ridiculous," said Bewkes, who has been CEO for more than 10 years. "If our channels are not in distribution we lose lots of money (from subscriptions and advertising)."

He said that "1 percent, less than 1 percent, maybe 2 percent" of subscribers would drop their pay TV subscription because of a blackout, far below the 12 percent estimated by an economist for the government who testified earlier in the trial.

He argued it was in Time Warner's best interest financially to licence its television channels, which range from movies to CNN to sports, broadly online.

Bewkes explained how Time Warner has been hampered in innovating and advertising because it does not have the granular information about viewers that pay TV and internet companies have.

With digital advertising, Chevrolet, for example, can target car ads at people looking to actually buy a car, he said.

AT&T has said a key benefit of owning Time Warner, whose networks include CNN and TBS, is that it can take data about its 141 million U.S. wireless subscribers and 25 million video subscribers and marry it with Time Warner's programming to enable advertisers to target TV ads.

Targeted TV ads, also known as addressable TV, have yet to go mainstream because they involve renegotiating carriage deals with programmers and distributors, said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research.

Targeted TV represents more than $100 billion in revenue by 2030 for companies that offer it, according to an April Credit Suisse report, which called it "a largely overlooked benefit of the AT&T/Time Warner transaction." The ads can also be sold at triple the price of regular ads.





'HEALTHY COMPETITION'

"The Google/Facebook duopoly has such a strong hold on the market, I think it's important that there is healthy competition and that we aren't just forced to invest in two places," said Tim Villanueva, head of media strategy for Fetch, an ad agency focused on mobile, whose clients include eBay and Lululemon. He said he was interested in using the new platform.

U.S. advertisers are expected to spend $60.9 billion this year on Facebook and Google, an 86 percent increase from the $32.8 billion they spent three years ago, according to research firm eMarketer.

Meanwhile advertisers' spending on TV ads is expected to be $69.9 billion, a 1.45 percent increase from three years ago.

The trial has seen a parade of witnesses testifying about how the merger would affect them. Executives from smaller pay TV companies talked about how important it was to have access to Time Warner's movies and television shows.

Both the Justice Department and AT&T called on economists to defend their points of view.

Among them were Carl Shapiro of the University of California at Berkeley, who said the $84.5 billion deal would cost American consumers some $286 annually in higher prices, while Dennis Carlton, from the University of Chicago, said it would mean a benefit of 52 cents per month to every pay TV subscriber.

The trial, which began in mid-March in U.S. District Court in Washington, is expected to wrap up this month.





(Reporting by Diane Bartz; Additional reporting by Jessica Toonkel; Editing by Bernadette Baum)



NEW YORK (AP) -- Starbucks, moving swiftly to confront a racially charged uproar over the arrest of two black men at one of its stores in Philadelphia, plans to close more than 8,000 U.S. stores for several hours next month to conduct racial-bias training for nearly 175,000 workers.

The announcement Tuesday comes after the arrests sparked protests and calls for a boycott on social media. A video shows police talking with two black men seated at a table. After a few minutes, officers handcuff the men and lead them outside as other customers say they weren't doing anything wrong. Philadelphia-area media said the two were waiting for a friend.

Philadelphia police released a recording of the call from the Starbucks employee that led to the arrests. In the recording, a woman is heard saying, "Hi, I have two gentlemen in my cafe that are refusing to make a purchase or leave." She gives the address of the Starbucks store, and the entire call lasts less than 30 seconds. In the communications between police and dispatch that were also released, someone refers to "a group of males inside causing a disturbance," and additional officers are sent.

Starbucks, which was once ridiculed for urging its employees to write "Race Together" on coffee cups to start a national conversation on race relations, has found itself through the looking glass: under fire for its treatment of black people.

The company reacted from a high level: Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson called the arrests "reprehensible" and said he wanted to apologize to the two men face-to-face. The company and a lawyer for the two men said they did meet, and Johnson delivered the apology. Starbucks also said the employee who called police no longer works at the store, but declined to give details.

Johnson also promised to revamp store management training to include "unconscious-bias" education. Starbucks said its U.S. company-owned stores and corporate offices will be closed on the afternoon of May 29 for the training, which will eventually be incorporated into the instruction process for all newly hired employees.

The episode highlights the risks large corporations run when they tie their brands so closely to social messaging. In 2015, then-CEO Howard Schultz shrugged off the "Race Together" fiasco as a well-intentioned mistake and pressed on with his public efforts to engage in the debate over race in America. Johnson was scrambling to keep the Philadelphia incident from shattering the message Schultz was going for: Starbucks is a corporation that stands for something beyond profit.

"The more your brand is trying to connect emotionally to people, the more hurt people feel when these kinds of things happen," said Jacinta Gauda, the head of the Gauda Group, a New York strategic communications firm affiliated with the Grayling network. "They are breaking a promise. That's what makes it hurt deeper."

Beyond racial relations, Starbucks has staked much of its brand on its dual promise of providing good customer service and treating its employees well, said John Gordon, a restaurant industry analyst with Pacific Management Consulting Group.

But in a multinational company with more than 28,000 stores worldwide, there has "to be a situation every day where some human being handles things wrong," Gordon said. "Even with a huge operations manual that lays out what to say and what to do, you can't cover everything."

Gordon called the decision to hold the May 29 training sessions "the most practical way to get word out to all employees, the same way at one time."

Starbucks has set its own high bar.

Last month, the company claimed it had achieved 100 percent pay equity across gender and race for all its U.S. employees and committed to doing the same for its overseas operations, an initiative publicly backed by equality activist Billie Jean King. The company also touts the diversity of its workforce, saying minorities comprise more than 40 percent of its employees in the U.S.

In 2016, Starbucks promised to invest in 15 "underserved" communities across the country, trying to counter an image of a company catering to a mostly white clientele. One of those stores opened in Ferguson, Missouri, the scene of 2014 protests following the police shooting of Michael Brown, one of several such killings that moved Schultz to launch the Race Together campaign.

Story ContinuesStarbucks Is Closing Thousands of Stores for Racial Bias Training. Here's How Much Money It Could Lose

Starbucks is closing over 8,000 company-owned stores for racial bias training during an afternoon in May, the company announced Tuesday.

The news comes as the Seattle, Wash.-based firm is being criticized after two black men were arrested in a Philadelphia Starbucks store after asking to use the restroom without making a purchase. The incident has led to protests and boycotts nationwide, while the manager involved in the situation has since left Starbucks’ Philadelphia location where the arrest took place.

“Closing our stores for racial bias training is just one step in a journey that requires dedication from every level of our company and partnerships in our local communities,” said Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson in a statement Tuesday.

Closing thousands of stores could be costly for the company.

Starbucks-owned stores made about $4.7 billion in revenue over the most recent quarter, according to the company’s latest earnings report. Divide that by three, and you get about $1.6 billion per month. Divide again by 30, and you get about $53.3 million every day. Divide again by 24, and you get about $2.2 million every hour. So if you assume each company-owned Starbucks store will close for about four hours over a single afternoon, that’s roughly $8.8 million in revenue the company will potentially miss out on, by this admittedly back-of-the-envelope math.

It’s worth noting a couple of caveats: Not every company-owned Starbucks store will close, so this estimate may be slightly high. Meanwhile, some customers may simply wait until Starbucks re-opens to get their fix on the day of the closures, but as a self-identifying caffeine addict, I’d argue most people will just get their fix at a rival chain or local coffee shop.

But for Starbucks, the price may be worth paying. The company’s stock price and reputation have both suffered in the wake of the Philadelphia Starbucks arrest incident. Shutting down Starbucks stores is the kind of strong response from Johnson that might help restore the shaken trust and confidence between Starbucks, its customers, its employees, and its investors.As bearish as I’ve been on Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD), I can’t say I saw the recent decline in AMD stock coming. AMD stock dipped below $10 earlier this month, touching a 16-month low in the process.

That’s not what I predicted. I’d argued for most of the last year that I thought AMD stock would stay stuck. A trading range that mostly held between $11 and $13 seemed right — unless the company could show some significant improvement in its growth potential. Indeed, I wrote a month ago that “below $10, AMD stock gets more interesting.”

Just north of that level, Advanced Micro Devices stock does look more interesting. The drivers of the bull case, notably new product lines, still are on the way. AMD’s ability to better challenge industry giant Intel Corporation (NASDAQ:INTC) remains intact. There are long-term tailwinds behind the chip space as a whole, a key reason why the sector has seen a bull run, particularly since the election.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

The question is whether “interesting” is quite compelling enough. And there are real concerns facing AMD. Cryptocurrency mining weakness and reports of serious flaws have weighed AMD stock down so far. And I’m not quite ready to dismiss those concerns.

Still, the move back to $10 does make AMD’s multiple more attractive. Support generally has held around these levels, which could set up a bounce. I’m not 100% ready to jump on board with AMD stock — but more aggressive investors might be.

Bull Case for AMD Stock

One reason to buy AMD stock now is that it has been caught in a sector-wide downdraft. Indeed, chip stocks as a whole seem to have weakened. Whether it’s trade war fears or just valuation concerns, the iShares S&P NA Tec. Semi. Idx. Fd.(ETF) (NASDAQ:SOXX), better known as the “SOX,” is off 6% over the past month. AMD stock has fallen 12%, as has Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:MU). Even high-flyer Nvidia Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA) has pulled back about 7%.

AMD, meanwhile, aside from a quick dip toward $9, has seen support hold around the $10 level — support which has held since December 2016. First-quarter earnings, due next month, could provide an upside catalyst, particularly with expectations likely rather low at the moment. More importantly, the long-term case here still holds.

After all, the company’s key new lines should drive growth in 2018 and beyond. Both Ryzen CPUs and EPYC data center chips should allow AMD to challenge Intel. For all the hype about cryptocurrency mining and its contribution to AMD revenue, the market hasn’t priced AMD stock as if those profits would continue forever. Advanced Micro Devices stock now is down over the period when mining demand ramped up. (Indeed, one would think the obvious trade on mining weakness would be to short NVDA, which has risen 138% over the past year, not sell AMD, which is down 22%.)

Meanwhile, AMD has responded to the report of vulnerabilities that hit its stock in March, and said fixes would be mostly based on firmware updates. So two of the drivers of the recent weakness that are specific to AMD seem relatively modest, at worst. The rest of the sell-off could be attributed to the market selling chip stocks — and tech stocks more broadly. If that’s the case, there’s a clear buying opportunity in AMD stock.

Is AMD Stock a Buy?

Forced to choose, I’d take the bull case at this point. AMD stock still has a heavy short interest, at almost 19%, and that’s a trade that looks far too risky at this point.

Still, there are reasons for caution. Technically, support has held, but Advanced Micro Devices also has a concerning 10-month pattern of higher highs and lower lows. Valuation, even at 19x 2019 consensus earnings per share, isn’t necessarily cheap. The chip stock space as a whole is notoriously cyclical. AMD still is heavily reliant on the PC, and long-term weakness in that industry is one reason I’m cautious on INTC as well.

AMD itself has targeted $0.75 in EPS in 2020. A 20x multiple to those earnings would value the stock at $15. Discounted back at 10%, that values AMD stock at the moment above $12. The question is whether a 20x multiple is merited — and whether AMD can hit those targets. If cryptocurrency mining weakness has some effect — and it likely will, given ASIC competition — the target is a concern. Given PC exposure and the cyclical nature of the space, a 20x multiple might be too high. (Note that Intel is trading at under 14x.)Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE:CMG) still has its share of doubters on Wall Street. But an analyst revision is making Chipotle stock look tastier off and on the price chart and ripe for a bullish order from the options menu in front of next week’s earnings event.

Let me explain.

By some measures, it’s been a good year for Chipotle stock. Shares are up nearly 12.50% and more than 15x the minuscule 0.80% increase this year in the S&P 500. That of course fails to appreciate the past couple years and is a stark contrast to 2018’s shifting fortunes for a bull just coming of age in CMG versus one looking ready for slaughter.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Helping Chipotle along with 2018’s strong performance, Tuesday saw RBC Capital Markets raise its price target on CMG shares from a below-market $310 to a mostly at-the-money $340. Bulls and bears reacted by sending Chipotle stock up 2.45% to $334.61.

Behind the ‘mild’ price revision, the firm sees the recently tapped Chipotle CEO as a driver for more aggressive marketing, innovation and long-term earnings growth.

In truth, the note comes across on the bland side to this strategist. But with no mention of popular bearish talking points such as weak online customer reviews, ‘sour sides’ like avocado price wars or unsatisfying queso sauce and Chipotle stock maintaining an overwhelmingly bearish Street community; CMG is ready for contrarians to place a bullish order from the CMG options menu.

Chipotle Stock Daily Chart

How to Play an Earnings Breakout in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. Stock More

After more than a couple false starts, shares of CMG look ready to move higher and begin a new and more appetizing price cycle for investors. Bottom-line or squiggly lines in this case, Tuesday’s bullish daily special in Chipotle stock has the technical backing of a fairly drawn out and supportive bottoming pattern.

The price formation is known as an inverse triangle or broadening pattern and has loosely taken shape around Chipotle’s 62% retracement level stemming from its all-time-low in 2008 to CMG’s all-time-high in 2015. Overall, the base building in CMG over the last several months is viewed as constructive, albeit a volatile and stomach-churning affair at times as well.

Now and with shares of CMG moving firmly above the 200-day simple moving average for a second time in 2018 and removed from potential angular pattern resistance near $365; the time looks right to nibble on Chipotle stock in front of next week’s earnings and a catalyst for a fresh higher-high pattern and an emerging bull market.





Chipotle Stock Bullish Strategy

For like-minded bullish traders wanting to position through next week’s earnings event with a short-term play, approaching Chipotle stock with an out-of-the-money bull call spread makes sense. Verticals like this go a long ways towards minimizing and containing risk in the event we’re wrong.

The downside for this CMG strategy is both the timing and direction needed to cooperate or the debit risks being lost in full. If readers are comfortable with this possibility, one favored combination is the April 27 $352.50 / $365 call spread. With shares at $334.61, the spread is priced for $3.10 or less than 1% of the risk associated with holding CMG stock.

The minimal exposure is a nice benefit as Chipotle stock does have a history of making large earnings-driven price moves. Thus, if we’re ‘long and wrong’, at least the risk is well-controlled versus owning shares or some other costlier options position. This type of spread is also easy to adjust or even take quick profits if there’s a bit of pre-earnings support in CMG stock.

Technically, this spread was chosen as it fits in well with our expectations. If new highs are in store for Chipotle, buying the $350 call is a well-placed bet to take advantage of that happening. At the same time, since we anticipate some resistance around $365 in the near-term, selling the higher strike and reducing the cost of the long call is not only reasonable, it’s smart business. And as the net transaction can capture as much as $9.40 or 300% if Chipotle stock manages to top our expectations and sizzle through $365; that’s a tasty spread, even if we leave something on the table.I hate to admit it, but First Solar, Inc. (NASDAQ:FSLR) is having a brilliant time in the markets. Year-to-date, FSLR stock isn’t that remarkable, up around 15%. However, over the trailing year, First Solar tore up the markets, returning shareholders a whopping 170% return.

Best of all, the company’s performance greatly outshines its competitors. Rival Canadian Solar Inc. (NASDAQ:CSIQ) offered a respectable 20% in the past year, but it’s nowhere near FSLR stock. SunPower Corporation (NASDAQ:SPWR) put up very similar numbers in the same time frame, or 22%.

Unfortunately, in hindsight, I unnecessarily cautioned against buying First Solar shares. On Sep. 8 of last year, I stated that the company was excessively hyped but without fundamental justification. Since then, FSLR stock has rocketed 55%, leaving me with egg on my face.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

So what exactly happened? Late October, First Solar released its third quarter 2017 results, which produced a massive 131% earnings surprise. That mooned FSLR, as you might imagine. Another solid outing in Q4 led to a significant rally this year.

I concede that you can’t argue with the results. Try as I might, the markets have their own logic, and they are always right. Having said that, I firmly believe that most of the run-up is due to investor speculation; if you drill down into the details, the FSLR rally has vulnerabilities.

Here are three reasons why I’m still cautious on First Solar despite its recent performance.

First Solar or Any Solar Is Simply Inefficient

One of the biggest reasons why I remain bearish on FSLR stock is solar energy’s inefficiency. If you’re looking to power a pocket calculator, fine. But if you want to run an air conditioner, even a small one will require 7.5 amps on a 120V circuit. Bump that up to a whopping 30 amps on a dedicated 240V circuit.

I think most people have a grave misunderstanding when it comes to renewable energy. To power a home daily for mundane purposes, perhaps you can get away with bolting a few, ugly solar panels on your roof. But for something more extensive like the AC, forget it! You’d probably run out of roof before you can adequately run your cooling device.

Right now, renewable energy companies like First Solar are enjoying the trendiness of their industry. But when it comes down to brass tacks, the upfront costs are prohibitive. True, you can eventually break even, but you have to remember that solar panels don’t last indefinitely. Also, the time to get break even can extend unexpectedly if you use the AC or any high-amp device.

One more point on this topic: If renewable energy is supposedly so amazing, how come nations that utilize it don’t have cheaper utility bills?

FSLR Stock Faces Old-Tech Risks

Another possible reason why FSLR stock has performed remarkably well over the past few months is its “new tech” cred. Companies like Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) and Alphabet Inc (NASDAQ:GOOG, NASDAQ:GOOGL) are where they are because they embrace innovation. Adapt or die, as they say.





But a key irony is that First Solar’s biggest competition may not be other innovators, but industries older than the sands of time. For instance, people love the Prius from Toyota Motor Corp (ADR) (NYSE:TM). It’s an environment saver, producing fewer carbon footprints than traditional vehicles, whatever that means.

It’s all fun and games until you have to replace the Prius’ battery. You then balk at the $2,300 to $2,600 price range, and that’s just the unit cost. Ultimately, once an electric vehicle’s battery goes, it may be better just to buy another car. So much for being green and not wasteful.

This brings me back to FSLR. It might produce the next big thing in renewable energy. But once the hidden costs of renewables become further known, traditional energy sources become more attractive. Because let’s face it: Who wants to have ugly, expensive solar roof panels if standard energy costs decline for whatever reason?

First Solar’s Increasingly Unattractive Financials

Several years ago, you might make a case for FSLR stock based on its potential. Indeed, for fiscal year 2014, things were rolling in the right direction: strong revenue growth, exceptionally high net margins relative to the industry, and positive earnings trend.At first glance, Pfizer Inc. (NYSE:PFE) appears a worthwhile contrarian trade. We’re talking about one of the world’s biggest drug-makers, so any downturn is likely a discounted opportunity. Additionally, the overall markets have been soft, allowing shrewd investors to pick up PFE stock at a more attractive valuation.

Since closing at $38.66 near January-end, PFE has dropped 6%. On a year-to-date basis, shares have gone nowhere, moving up less than 1%. With the company’s flagship drugs like Prevnar and Viagra losing patent exclusivity, management faces significant headwinds. As a result, many analysts are questioning whether Pfizer stock, at its present cost, is worth the risk.

Our own Tom Taulli recognizes the steep challenges that lay ahead. Nevertheless, he’s cautiously optimistic on PFE stock, primarily because of its growth story. Granted, over the past few years, revenues have disappointed shareholders. But Taulli argues that the company invested substantially into its therapeutics pipeline. Moreover, it levers a respectable portfolio, including “Ibrance (a cancer drug), Prevnar 13 (a vaccine for pneumococcal) and Xeljanz (an immunology drug).”

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Certainly, PFE isn’t going down without a fight. Prior to Viagra losing its patent exclusivity late last December, the pharmaceutical giant developed its own generic version. I like the thinking here, as Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd (ADR) (NYSE:TEVA) and Mylan NV (NASDAQ:MYL) were on the prowl.

Taulli mentions other positives for Pfizer stock, including favorable tax treatment and a generous dividend yield. The former reason in particular has strong forward-looking implications, because PFE can use the extra funds to boost core investments.

But despite these positives, PFE stock hasn’t been a great trade. For example, the company lost Viagra exclusivity on Dec. 11 last year. Shares increased a mere 1.2%.

Moving forward, I’d still be very cautious about Pfizer stock.

PFE Stock Is All Potential, No Substance

There is a saying: talk is cheap. I’m sure that Pfizer’s executives are focused on growth. What else are they going to say, that they’re focused on sinking the company? The issue here is that we’re not seeing any evidence that their strategies will work favorably for PFE stock.

InvestorPlace contributor Will Healy points out that Pfizer posted surprisingly strong numbers in its most recent fourth-quarter earnings report. Healy writes:

The company tends to surprise on earnings. For fourth quarter 2017, Pfizer reported earnings of 62 cents per share, beating estimates by 6 cents per share. Revenue for the quarter came in at over $13.7 billion, $20 million higher than expected. EPS improved from the 47 cents per share number reported in 4Q 2016.

However, he rightfully mentioned that “revenues only increased by 0.5% year-over-year,” and that’s my problem with Pfizer stock. It’s not just a one-off pedestrian performance, but affirms a long string of disappointing results.

Going back to Q1 2011, we have only seen seven quarters where revenues increased on a year-over-year basis. If you’re doing the math, that’s seven quarters against 28 total, a lowly 25%. Furthermore, when sales are increasing, the growth averages only 7.3%. That’s just not going to cut it when 75% of the time, revenue growth is negative.

PFE stock, revenue growth More

True, the last two quarters produced YOY gains. Unfortunately, neither in Q3 nor in Q4 was that gain higher than 1%. Plus, the last four quarters’ sales growth averaged -0.54%.

I’m not trying to be a jerk here, but these are not the metrics the company needs. Unless the company has a miracle product in the pipeline, PFE stock faces significant downside risk.

Too Many Obstacles Ahead for Pfizer Stock

The follow-up question is what PFE has in its pipeline. Unfortunately, Healy states that nothing special exists in their product portfolio. And without that excitement, it’s hard to see analysts supporting Pfizer stock at current valuations."Retire Inspired" author Chris Hogan on a planning for retirement and a new survey on the top small cities to start a small business.Signs of U.S. dollar and Euro are seen at a currency exchange office in Istanbul, Turkey, November 15, 2017. REUTERS/Murad Sezer/File Photo

LONDON (Reuters) - Iran will start reporting foreign currency amounts in euros rather than U.S. dollars, state media said on Wednesday as part of the country's effort to reduce its reliance on the U.S. currency due to political tension with Washington.

The new policy could encourage government bodies and firms linked to the state to increase their use of the euro at the expense of the dollar.

Central bank governor Valiollah Seif said last week that Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had welcomed his suggestion of replacing the dollar with the euro in foreign trade, as the "dollar has no place in our transactions today".

Tehran has been trying for years to move away from the dollar, although much of the country's international trade is still conducted in dollars and ordinary Iranians use them for travel and savings.

U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to exit a 2015 nuclear deal Iran made with world powers unless it is revised. U.S. sanctions will resume unless Trump issues new "waivers" to suspend them on May 12.

Bank transactions involving the dollar are already difficult for Iran because legal risks make U.S. banks unwilling to do business with Tehran. Foreign firms can be exposed to sanctions if they do Iranian deals in dollars, even if the operations involve non-U.S. branches.

As a result, France will start offering euro-denominated credits to Iranian buyers of its goods later this year to keep its trade out of reach of U.S. sanctions, the head of state-owned French investment bank Bpifrance said in February.

The threat of U.S. sanctions has destabilised Iran's foreign exchange market in recent months.

The rial lost close to half its value on the free market between last September and last week, sinking to a record low of about 60,000 against the dollar before authorities set a fixed rate of 42,000 and warned Iranians they would face penalties for using other rates.

Khamenei on Wednesday blamed foreign enemies for the "recent issues in the currency market" and asked Iran's intelligence services to defuse the plots against the Islamic Republic.

Police spokesman Saeed Montazer al-Mahdi was also quoted by ISNA saying that 39 currency exchangers have been arrested "for disrupting the market" and 80 unlicensed currency exchange shops have been shut down in recent days.





(Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Editing by Andrew Torchia and Matthew Mpoke Bigg)A briefcase filled with Iranian rial banknotes sits on display at a currency exchange market on Ferdowsi street in Tehran, Iran, on Saturday, Jan. 6, 2018. A wave of bad loans from unregulated lenders has rocked the banking sector and oil prices have averaged less than $60 a barrel for the past three years, draining Iran of a key source of revenue. Photographer: Ali Mohammadi/Bloomberg

Foreign intelligence services have played a role in fueling Iran’s currency crisis in an effort to destabilize the economy, according to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Enemies of Iran are waging a war against the country, Tasnim news agency quoted him as saying. He didn’t refer to any country in particular.

“When we look carefully at recent issues in the currency market, the footprints of foreign intelligence is evident,” Khamenei was cited as saying in a Wednesday meeting with officials of the Ministry of Intelligence.

Iran unified its exchange rates for the rial last week as part of urgent measures to contain a crisis that saw the currency slump to series of record lows against the U.S. dollar in unregulated trading. The rial has weakened as the Trump administration nears a May 12 deadline to stay in or withdraw from the 2015 nuclear deal that removed most sanctions on Iran’s economy, and amid political feuding at home.

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Confirms CIA Chief Pompeo Met North Korea’s Kim Last Week

Last week, central bank governor Valiollah Seif accused regional foes Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates of playing a role in the currency drop.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Khamenei Sees `Foreign Footprints' in Iran's Currency Chaos on bloombergpolitics.comLONDON (Reuters) - Iran banned government bodies on Wednesday from using the popular Telegram instant messaging app as Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's office said his account would shut down to protect national security, Iranian media reported.

ISNA news agency did not give a reason for the government ban on the service which lets people send encrypted messages and has an estimated 40 million users in the Islamic Republic.

The order came days after Russia - Iran's ally in the Syrian war - started blocking the app in its territory following the company's repeated refusal to give Russian state security services access to users' secret messages.

Iran's government banned "all state bodies from using the foreign messaging app," according to ISNA.

Khamenei stopped using Telegram on Wednesday "in line with safeguarding national interests and removing the monopoly of the Telegram messaging app," state media reported.

The Supreme Leader has a strong presence on social media, even on Twitter and Facebook that are blocked in Iran. His office updates the accounts with photos and his latest speeches.

Telegram, set up by a Russian entrepreneur and ranked the world's ninth most popular mobile messaging app, has been widely used by Iranian state media, politicians and companies.

A judicial official said this week that Telegram and other foreign messaging services could only operate in Iran if they got permission from the government and saved users' data inside the country.

Iran temporarily blocked the service in January as security forces sought to contain anti-government protests in more than 80 cities.

Many Iranians kept accessing Telegram then, using virtual private networks (VPNs) and other tools to bypass government filtering.

The service is widely used in countries across the Middle East and the former Soviet Union.





(Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Editing by Andrew Heavens)VMware shares soared on Monday on word that Michael Dell is ready to abandon his reverse merger plan between VMware and Dell Technologies.

Shareholders were in open revolt, and Wall Street analysts were openly negative about the prospect of the deal.

Employees weren't thrilled either, and neither were VMware's hardware partners that compete with Dell, according to reports.

The deal would have been huge, and would have given Dell a non-traditional path to going public again.

VMware shareholders are happy, and the stock is up about 7% over the close of Friday, thanks to rumors that Michael Dell is growing cold on the idea of a reverse merger — a move that would have made Dell a publicly-traded company again, after it went private in 2013 after a $24 billion buyout.

Dell is listening to angry VMware investors and bearish Wall Street analysts who have been saying that this merger is bad for VMware and only good for Dell, multiple news outlets reported on Monday.

For instance, one of VMware largest investors, Jericho Capital Asset Management, was pressuring the VMware board to end discussions, Bloomberg reported last month.

And T. Rowe Price Group, the largest independent shareholder of VMware, also opposed any such deal, it told Barron's last month.

"The proposed Dell-VMW reverse merger has previously drawn public opposition by VMW shareholders, due to the slow-growth, legacy nature of Dell's core business as well as its heavy debt load," Credit Suisse's Brad Zelnick summarized in a research note on Monday.

On top of that, the merger could have crushed VMware's growth by making it impossible for it to maintain its strong partnerships with Dell's long-time hardware rivals, especially Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, CRN's Mark Haranas reported.

As we previously reported, we heard rumblings that employees inside VMware were not too happy about the idea, as well.

All told, the clear threat was that the reverse merger could lead to investor lawsuits, among other issues.

To recap what everyone was so upset about: Michael Dell's company Dell Technologies is currently VMware's largest shareholder. Dell was considering merging with VMware, essentially selling itself to the smaller company. Because VMware is already a publicly-traded company, it would mean Dell would basically go public without the need for an IPO.

That would also mean that VMware shareholders would suddenly be on the hook for all of Dell's $53 billion in debt (much of which it incurred by buying EMC), Zelnick points out, adding that VMware represents about 10% of Dell revenues but over half if its free cash flow. Under the current structure, where VMware remains an independent publicly traded company, Dell cannot lay its hands on that cash.

In fact, in 2016, EMC executives promised that after it merged with Dell, the combined company wouldn't raid VMware's cash and wouldn't harm its long-term ability to do business with its competitors.

VMware declined to comment.

NOW WATCH: Dell's CMO says this is the biggest mistake marketers make

See Also:

SEE ALSO: The general manager of one of VMware's star business units has jumped to Google, stoking fears that more could follow

SEE ALSO: Oracle cancelled a big announcement at the last minute — here are some clues as to what it could be cooking upEnergy sector earnings season starts rolling later this week, and as always, the party will kick off with the so-called big three oilfield services providers: Schlumberger Ltd. , General Electric Co.'s Baker Hughes , and Halliburton Co. .

Schlumberger is a holding in Jim Cramer's Action Alerts PLUS.

While oilfield services stocks have been riding the energy stock outperformance wave of late, investors are mostly still sitting on the sidelines, according to Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. analysts.

That means first quarter earnings present a significant opportunity for management teams to potentially convince investors of the renewed merit for their stocks.

"We've been around long enough to know that markets never behave exactly the way we expect, so given the current sky-high apathy level regarding the OFS space, there are bound to be some positive egative surprises (Q1 results and/or Q2+ outlook commentary) which draw at least some folks off the sidelines," the firm wrote in a Wednesday, April 18, research note.

Schlumberger - Paal Kibsgaard

Part of that game plan requires managing analysts' expectations ahead of earnings. Of the big three, Schlumberger has seemed to do the best job of that so far.

"Masterful job by SLB of casting pall over market expectations for its Q1'18 results (we and Street now both down to 37c EPS) without actually precisely quantifying order of magnitude of transitory North America frac market headwinds (sand logistics, etc.)," the analysts wrote in a Wednesday note. "We've been to this (quarterly earnings) rodeo before with the global OFS bellwether, so we'll take the over on SLB's Q1 print, which suggests Street Q2 EPS (48c vs. our 46c) is probably in right ballpark."

Indeed, last month a number of analysts revised their earnings estimates for Schlumberger following management commentary on sand and logistics issues, including Seaport Global Securities LLC, which now expects earnings of 37 cents per share, as well. The shut down of a major railroad in the first quarter was causing shortages of sand noted by both Schlumberger and its competitor Halliburton, and with the two largest pumping companies in the US experiencing such significant shortages and delays, Seaport said it would not be surprised to see delays and disappointments in U.S. well completion rates and well production volumes in the near-term.

To be sure, as the largest oilfield services company in the world, Schlumberger's earnings are about more than just income and revenue numbers and North American sand issues. According to TPH, the market justifiably always looks to Schlumberger's international commentary as they have arguably the best international oil patch intelligence on the planet.

"But we're most curious to hear that the near-term transitory international earnings-recovery bridles (e.g., costs associated with asset reactivations) will be in rearview mirror come this summer," the firm wrote. "Regarding NAM onshore, SLB will never say, but we're looking for at least some qualitative color on the deployment pace for its recently acquired frac horsepower."

On Friday before the opening bell, Schlumberger is expected to report earnings of 37 cents per share on revenues of $7.8 billion, according to FactSet Research Systems Inc. Look for CEO Paal Kibsgaard to take the stage for a subsequent conference call in which the longtime CEO of the world's most dominant oilfield services provider should relay a cautiously optimistic message focusing on his company's best-in-class international presence.

Halliburton - Jeff Miller

For competitor Halliburton, discretion has been the key to managing market expectations this earnings season, but this is a fair stance to take, TPH said, given that we're coming off fourth quarter earnings in which oilfield services companies that disappointed were "were taken out back and put out of their misery."

In other words, the stock market was not kind to earnings misses in the oilfield services sector last go around, so no one can blame Halliburton for being wary of promising too much this quarter.

Halliburton's relatively new CEO Jeff Miller and company have done well to telegraph the services provider's sand logistics dilemmas, which may be why analysts surveyed by FactSet expect earnings of 41 cents per share on sales of $5.75 billion. If Halliburton is in line with consensus estimates, it would mark a step back from its EPS of 53 cents on $5.94 billion in revenue -- the best earnings and sales numbers the company has hit in more than two years.

TPH said in a Wednesday note it believes Halliburton's U.S. hydraulic fracturing stages completed have trended favorably during the first quarter, meaning March completions were better than February completions, which were better than January completions.

With that, the firm suggests Halliburton may be the boy who cried wolf for the first quarter, and therefore the company should trump even TPH's first-quarter earnings estimate of 42 cents per share, which is slightly above Wall Street's best guess.

"Heaven help us if we're wrong as our recent client conversations suggest that there are more folks in our camp than there are investors who believe this Q1 earnings tale uncomfortably ends with the sheep/boy (and HAL stock) getting eaten," TPH wrote. "Working in HAL's favor is that most investors with whom we speak these days are convinced that the U.S. hydraulic fracturing services market is already (cyclically) oversupplied. We disagree and are happy to walk folks through our U.S. frac supply/demand work which illuminates why we feel as such. In the meantime, we're sticking with our bullish HAL stance as we believe the stock will see $60/share before it sees $40."

Halliburton, which closed at $50.89 per share Tuesday, reports earnings Monday ahead of the opening bell.

Baker Hughes - Lorenzo Simonelli

Almost a year after Baker Hughes linked up with General Electric's oil and gas unit, the company finally seems to have gotten the proper footing organizationally, operationally and financially, according to analysts.

That may be why the company's stock has taken off over the past six weeks, climbing almost 29% from $26.40 a share at the end of February to over $34 a share Wednesday.

But TPH is uncertain over what other catalysts approach the stock in the near term. Analysts surveyed by FactSet are calling for earnings of 6 cents per share for Baker Hughes, and TPH analysts think somewhere between that mark and their own 9-cents-per-share expectation would have a negligible effect on the stock.

But one real potential needle mover, according to the firm, would be for a marked improvement in Baker Hughes' free cash flow, given the company reported a deficit in that category during its fiscal 2017.

"We've confidence BHGE will deliver on this in FY'18...bonus would be if positive FCF already started flowing in Q1. We got too cute when BHGE stock was in high-$20s (couple weeks ago), so we'll tactically pick our spots on this one this spring/summer."

Wall Street's earnings expectations of 6 cents per share are well below the 15 cents per share Baker Hughes produced in the fourth quarter, as is the $5.43 billion in revenue expected this quarter compared to the $5.76 billion in the past frame.

Similar to its majority shareholder General Electric, Baker Hughes reports earnings Friday morning before markets open. Expect Baker Hughes CEO Lorenzo Simonelli, who took the helm at the newly combined company after serving atop GE's oil and gas unit since 2013, to attempt to assure investors and analysts that the integration period is in the rear-view and his company is ready to start regaining market share after years of losing ground.

Of course, if you're looking for just one of these industry titans to add to your portfolio, however, Tudor, Pickering, Holt suggests leaning toward Halliburton, as the negative sentiment regarding U.S. hydraulic fracturing market supply and demand fundamentals is at a "fever pitch," and Halliburton is the most North American-levered player of the three.

EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer’s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE.Peris Kimeli and Betsy Cheruyot were students at Kenyatta University thinking about launching a business when they applied for their first loans from the mobile lending company, Tala.

Hoping to get a clothing business off the ground and make some money to live on while going to school, the two young Kenyans downloaded the Tala mobile app, and within minutes received loans totaling about $15.

"Between us and poverty, we had about 200 shillings," Kimeli said of her early days starting their business. "We were like, what are we going to eat? Our parents said, 'No. We're not going to send money... You go figure it out' So we went and we did that."

Kimeli and Cheruyot took that $15 loan and went to Nairobi's famous secondhand market, Gikomba, where they bought 15 dresses at 100 shillings each and resold them in dorms and hostels for 200 shillings.

“Two remained, but we had no problem -- since we could keep them, we could wear them. By the end of the month, we had 7000 [shillings]," Kimeli said. "We borrowed again -- this time we borrowed 3000 [shillings] -- we went out and bought some more dresses, and that’s how we’ve been.”

Peris Kimeli and Betsy Cheruyot in Nairobi. Photo courtesy of Tala

Similar stories are playing out in cities across the world -- in countries like India, Mexico, the Philippines and Tanzania -- all because of Tala, a young, Santa Monica, Calif.-based, financial services startup.

Now in its fourth year, Tala has already distributed around $300 million in loans to 1.3 million borrowers like Kimeli. The company plans to continue expanding its geographical reach and range of financial services, thanks in part to $65 million in new financing from billionaire backed investment funds like Steve Case's Revolution Growth fund.

"We see Tala as a company building the future of finance. They have quickly become one of the leading mobile-first lenders in emerging markets where well over 3 billion consumers do not have access to traditional banks," says Case.

Shivani Siroya, the founder and chief executive officer at Tala, knows just how important -- and transformational -- outside investment can be for individuals in emerging markets.

Siroya was introduced to the power of financial independence working with the United Nations Population Fund.

"I ended up interviewing 3500 people, in person, across nine different countries," Siroya says. "What I did was go to their homes with them. Walk with them to work and sit there in the back of their stores and tally how many customers came in and how many products they sold. How much money goes under the mattress and how much oney goes to allowances... These individuals are hard-working and they are credit worthy, but you couldn't lend to them because they couldn't be documented."

Siroya launched Tala in March 2014 to create a mechanism for providing credit scores to financial institutions so that these undocumented women could get the loans they needed to become financially independent and entrepreneurial, she says. What Tala's founder quickly realized was that the easiest way to create credit scores that other financial institutions would recognize would be for Tala to start issuing loans itself.

The app -- available for download on Android devices -- works by collecting data on texts and calls, merchant transactions, overall app usage, and personal identifiers on a mobile phone to create an instantaneous profile of its potential borrowers. Customers simply download the app, apply for a loan and receive a decision in seconds. Most Tala borrowers, actually receive their credit in less than 10 minutes.

Story ContinuesTesla could be 'too big to fail' like GM, Chrysler were during crisis, Morgan Stanley saysSalil Parekh, chief executive officer of Infosys Ltd, speaks during an interview in Bengaluru, India, on Tuesday, April 17th, 2018.

Salil Parekh didn’t get much time to settle in after taking over the helm of Infosys Ltd.

Since becoming chief executive officer in January, the 53-year-old has crisscrossed three continents to meet with customers and employees to get his hands around the challenges facing India’s iconic tech-services giant. He talked with 48 clients in his first three months -- and he’s determined to see every single one face to face in the next two quarters.

He’s already making tough decisions. He says Infosys has to sacrifice profit margins now by investing in advanced technology and skills in order to capture the opportunities of the ahead. That includes pumping more money into technologies such as the Internet of Things, retraining employees, localizing its workforce in the U.S. and building up the sales staff.

More from Bloomberg.com: Billionaire Banking Heir Matthew Mellon Dies at 54

“To build the future Infosys, we have to make those investments now,” says Parekh, perched on a couch in the office he clearly hasn’t used much. On his sparse desk are three photos of his family, a laptop and small statue of the elephant-head Ganesha, the god of new beginnings. “If we don’t do that now, the real concern is that we won’t be relevant to our clients in the future.”

It’s a message that may unsettle investors. On Monday, Infosys shares tumbled after the IT services giant said it expected operating margins to be 22 percent to 24 percent, lower than the previous year’s. The stock is trading at about the same level it did two years ago.

More from Bloomberg.com: Model 3 Production Line Skids to a Halt for Tesla

Parekh contends Infosys has a rare combination of skills and experience that will benefit the company in the years ahead. It’s been working with customers for decades and can use that understanding to help them navigate shifting technology trends, like cloud computing and artificial intelligence.

Infosys now reaps $2.8 billion in revenue from such digital services. But the potential market is $200 billion.

“We are best positioned to help clients navigate their journey into the future and take them to the next phase,” says Parekh. “Our clients are pushing us because they know we have the capabilities.”

Parekh may also cut some big acquisitions, like he did in his previous job. He has already met with the M&A team and asked them to draw up a short list of possible targets that could help buttress its digital capabilities. He’s also on the lookout for “opportunistic things that we can do that will help accelerate our digital pace.”

More from Bloomberg.com: Judge Slows U.S. Review of Trump Lawyer’s Records: Cohen Update

Read More: New ‘Stay Calm, Don’t Panic’ CEO Aims to Steady Troubled Infosys

In his first interview with international media, Parekh was engaging and a bit disarming. He explained he’s in the process of signing the lease on a house for his wife and youngest son to join him in Bangalore from Mumbai, even as he sends another son off to college in the U.S.

“You miss them, you don’t stop thinking about them,” he says, dressed in a blue shirt and striped tie, while his jacket is thrown over the back of a chair.

Through it all, his focus clearly is on urgent challenges at Infosys. Parekh is trying to get the company back to stable footing after the tumultuous tenure of his predecessor. Vishal Sikka arrived in 2014 as a well-respected executive from SAP SE, but quit in August after a clash with the company’s founders over strategy and compensation.

Parekh was a surprise choice as the new CEO. He was plucked from Capgemini SE over a field of internal candidates and former executives. He joined Capgemini in 2000 as part of an acquisition and then built its India business to the point it competed with Infosys and rival Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.

Parekh jokes about his management style -- “What are my options? I’ll pick one” -- but he quickly makes clear what he believes in is data.

“That’s the basis of all my decisions,” he says, explaining he spends so much time talking to staff and customers because he doesn’t like “second-hand” information. “I get into the details but I’m not a micro-manager.”

Infosys and TCS are pioneers in providing back-office support for the world’s largest corporations, but they’ve had to evolve to go beyond traditional low-margin, labor-intensive work. The country’s $167 billion IT services industry is investing in cloud computing and AI to jump-start growth, as clients from banking to retail turn to automation.Domestic rating agency Crisil, which is majority owned by multinational S&P, today reported a 14 per cent rise in net profit at Rs 82.21 crore for the three months to March over Rs 72.14 crore in the year-ago period. The company said its income from operations for the first quarter also rose by 4.6 per cent to Rs 420.59 crore. Managing director and chief executive officer Ashu Suyash attributed the better show, especially on lower income growth, "to improved margins owing to greater efficiencies and cost control," apart from leveraging technology which has begun to generate greater business traction. Through 2017, sharp focus on tech-enabled products to serve emerging needs of clients resultedThe Trump administration notified Russia’s U.S. embassy in Washington Sunday that it has no plans to impose any further sanctions soon, according to a Foreign Ministry official.

Conflicting signals from Washington over its plans have sent markets gyrating in recent days. When official Russian news agencies reported the U.S. notification Wednesday, the ruble flipped from being the worst performing emerging-market currency to the best in the first hour of trading in Moscow. Ten-year ruble debt erased declines, climbing for a third day before the Finance Ministry plans to sell bonds after axing an auction last week for the first time since 2015.

The latest back-and-forth began Sunday, when U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, said the Treasury would announce new sanctions soon targeting Russian companies linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program. The following day, the Washington Post reported that President Donald Trump halted the plan.

More from Bloomberg.com: CIA Chief Pompeo Met Kim to Lay Ground for Trump Summit

The Foreign Ministry official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. The official wouldn’t specify who on the U.S. side had given the notification.

Tuesday, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters that “additional sanctions are under consideration” though he said Haley had “got ahead of the curve” by discussing them publicly.

The U.S. imposed sanctions on dozens of Russian tycoons and companies earlier this month, the most punitive measures since it first slapped economic penalties on Russia four years ago over the Ukrainian conflict. One of Russia’s most powerful businessmen, billionaire Oleg Deripaska, was hit hardest and shares of his aluminum giant Rusal have plunged about 70 percent in Hong Kong since the U.S. basically banned the company from the dollar economy.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read U.S. Told Russian Embassy No New Sanctions Due Soon, Russia Says on bloombergpolitics.comChevy will soon let you pay for gas from inside your carTesla





Tesla has temporarily suspended its Model 3 assembly line while seeking to "improve automation and systematically address bottlenecks."

Shares were down 2.51% early Tuesday.

Model 3 production worries are only part of Tesla's problems right now.

Watch Tesla trade in real time.

Tesla was trading lower by 2.51% at $283.91 Tuesday after the electric-car maker said it had temporarily suspended its Model 3 assembly line to "improve automation and systematically address bottlenecks."

The shutdown, first reported by BuzzFeed, is the latest in a series of setbacks for the company.

Earlier in April, Tesla announced disappointing Model 3 production numbers but pledged to reach its target for 5,000 cars a week by the end of the second quarter. CEO Elon Musk recently told "CBS This Morning" that excessive automation of the Model 3 "was a mistake." He later tweeted that his company would be profitable before the end of the year.

But Model 3 production problems aren't the only issues Tesla has to deal with right now.

There's an ongoing government investigation into a fatal Model X crash in California, and the company's bonds have come under pressure. Additionally, a report from the Center for Investigative Reporting out Monday said Tesla deliberately concealed serious injuries from public reports to boost its safety statistics.

Shares of Tesla are down 8.8% this year, and recent selling has pushed them below the key $300 level.

Tesla More

Markets Insider

NOW WATCH: Wall Street's biggest bull explains why trade war fears are way overblown

See Also:Despite reigning in its humongous debt load, China has managed to achieve a stupendous annual rate of growth.

Abbott Laboratories ABT is an Illinois-based company focused on bringing a diverse line of healthcare products to the market.

Abbott reports its diversified business in four segments – namely Established Pharmaceuticals Division (EPD), Medical Devices, Diagnostics and Nutrition. The company has reshaped its portfolio through strategic acquisitions/divestitures in recent times.

In Feb 2015, Abbott completed the sale of its branded generics pharmaceuticals business in developed markets. Realignment of the EPD division through acquisitions in Latin America and Russia, along with business divestitures in developed markets, has positioned the company well for the coming quarters.

Abbott Laboratories Price and EPS Surprise

Abbott Laboratories Price and EPS Surprise | Abbott Laboratories Quote

The company rides on its strong EPD business and strategic buyouts. In 2017, Abbott completed the acquisition of Alere, which is expected to enhance the company’s stance in healthcare. However, foreign currency headwinds raise major concerns for the company, since a considerable percentage of Abbott’s revenues come from outside the United States.

Abbott has an impressive track record as the company beat estimates in the last four trailing quarters with an average positive earnings surprise of 4.5%.

Currently, Abbott has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), but that could definitely change following the company’s first quarter 2018 earnings report which was just released. (You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here) We have highlighted some of the key stats from this just-revealed announcement below:

Earnings: Abbott’ first quarter 2018 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of 59 cents outpaced the Zacks Consensus Estimate by a penny.

Revenues: Abbott posted first quarter worldwide revenues of $7.39 billion beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate for revenues by 1.8%.

Key Stats: Worldwide revenues increased by 6.9% on organic basis and by 16.7% on year-over-year basis. The revenues for Nutrition segment came in at $1.76 billion, up 7% year over year. Diagnostics segment reported sales worth $1.84 billion, up 58.7% on year-over-year basis. Established Pharmaceuticals revenues were $1.04 billion, up, 9.9% from the year-ago quarter. Medical Devices revenues came in at $2.74 billion, up 14.6% from the year-ago quarter.

Major Factors: The company expects full year earnings per share to be in the range of $2.80 to $2.90, reflecting 14% growth at midpoint. Several new products launched by the company have contributed to a strong growth. Furthermore, in January, Abbott announced U.S. FDA approval of for magnetic resonance (MR)-conditional labeling for its Quadra Assura and Quadra Assura MP devices.

Stock Price: Following the earnings release, share prices decreased by 1.4% during the pre-market trading session.

The Hottest Tech Mega-Trend of All



Last year, it generated $8 billion in global revenues. By 2020, it's predicted to blast through the roof to $47 billion. Famed investor Mark Cuban says it will produce "the world's first trillionaires," but that should still leave plenty of money for regular investors who make the right trades early.



See Zacks' 3 Best Stocks to Play This Trend >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Abbott Laboratories (ABT) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchDavid McNew/Getty Images





General Motors announced that Johan de Nysschen would depart as head of Cadillac.

Cadillac has struggled to directly compete with BMW, Audi, and Mercedes-Benz.

De Nysschen was replaced by Steve Carlisle, who had been running GM Canada and has been with the carmaker since 1982.

On Wednesday, General Motors announced that Johan de Nysschen would be replaced as head of the carmaker's Cadillac luxury division by Steve Carlisle, a relative unknown who started at GM in 1982 and had most recently been running Canadian operations.

"We appreciate Johan's efforts over the last four years in setting a stronger foundation for Cadillac," GM President Dan Ammann said in a statement.

"Looking forward, the world is changing rapidly, and, beginning with the launch of the new XT4, it is paramount that we capitalize immediately on the opportunities that arise from this rate of change." Ammann, who is GM's unofficial chief change officer, added. "This move will further accelerate our efforts in that regard."

De Nysschen came to Cadillac from Infiniti, and before that, Audi. He pushed Cadillac in a more overt, luxury brand direction, going so far as to relocate its sales and marketing operations to New York City to be close to the pulse of global luxury trends.

"There's no question Johan is a visionary automotive leader, but given GM's conservative culture he may have pushed things a step too far," Jessica Caldwell, an executive analyst at consumer auto site Edmunds.com, said in an email.

"The appointment of Carlisle, a GM-bred executive with a strong pedigree of global expertise, product planning acumen and history of building relationships with dealers speaks to the company’s desire for a more back-to-basics, comfortable approach," she added.

Cadillac XT5 More

Benjamin Zhang/Business Insider

Playing catch-up with the Germans

Caldwell expressed a view held by many in the industry: that De Nysschen's preoccupation with "chasing the German brands instead of embracing Cadillac’s unique heritage" undermined the brand's mojo.

"Over the last six months Cadillac has watched its cross-town rivals at Lincoln debut SUV after SUV to rave reviews, a script-flip few in the industry saw coming," she said.

In De Nysschen's defense, Cadillac launched a full-size sedan, the CT6, just as US sales were shifting to SUVs. A mid-size crossover, the XT5, arrived in 2016 and had sold briskly, but it launched with what some — including Business Insider — considered an engine that was underpowered for the segment. And Caddy's full-size Escalade continues to rule the segment, despite an upsurge in Lincoln Navigator sales.

But the clock was clearly ticking for de Nysschen, signaled by the departure of Uwe Ellinghaus as Caddy's marketing chief late last year. The South African-native De Nysschen was a cheerfully demanding executive, hardly a GM company man, easily identified due to his height, his clipped mustache, and his two-tone Breitling wristwatch.

De Nysschen also presided over the effective debut of Cadillac's Super Cruise hand-free highway self-driving feature, which now challenges Tesla's Autopilot as the best semi-autonomous consumer system available.

NOW WATCH: A Wall Street chief economist explains what could be the saving grace for mega-cap tech companies

See Also:

SEE ALSO: The Kia Stinger is one of the best cars we've driven all year — here are its coolest features

FOLLOW US: On Facebook for more car and transportation content!FILE PHOTO: William 'Bill' Ackman, CEO and Portfolio Manager of Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks during the Sohn Investment Conference in New York City, U.S., May 8, 2017. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid

(This version of the story corrects to clarify quote)

By Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Liana B. Baker

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Billionaire investor William Ackman, who lost a proxy contest at Automatic Data Processing <ADP.O> last year, said on Tuesday that he wants the human-resources technology company to succeed but said he might be back with a fight if ADP fails to perform.

Ackman, whose hedge fund Pershing Square Holdings last month reported cutting its holding in ADP to a 7.2 percent economic stake, praised the company for planning an analyst day in June and said he and other shareholders are looking forward to hearing how executives navigate a changed economic environment. ADP will benefit from recent tax cuts, and rising interest rates should help lift guidance, Ackman said at 13D Monitor's 2018 Active-Passive Investor Summit.

"We are rooting for the company," Ackman said, adding, other major ADP shareholders have told him "If we are disappointed we will say, We look forward to seeing you (Pershing Square) at the next annual meeting."

Ackman, who runs the $8 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, has had a tense relationship with ADP's chief executive officer, Carlos Rodriguez, who said that shareholders delivered an "ass-whipping" to the investor when he lost the proxy contest last November.

Since then, Ackman said relations have been more cordial, and he described a four-hour-long dinner he had with Rodriguez.

Ackman also heaped praise on the new CEO of Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc <CMG.N>, Brian Niccol, who started in March. There too, Ackman said he sees plenty of opportunity, noting the restaurant chain could offer breakfast, dessert, longer hours and drive-through options. Pershing owns 10.36 percent of Chipotle, according to Thomson Reuters data.

In a nod to diversity at boards, a topic that is gaining force in corporate America, Ackman said he may run an all-women slate one day and predicted it would win. At ADP he proposed three directors, including himself and one woman.

Ackman, who closed out the conference, caused some attendees to murmur about his declaration in January that he planned to keep a lower profile as he tries to resurrect his business.

After three years of back-to-back losses, Pershing Square is again in the red in early 2018, but Ackman sounded an optimistic note that a turnaround is possible for him and his portfolio.

"I hope we are on our way back to rebuilding our record," he said.

Shares of ADP closed up 0.8 percent at $117.89 on Tuesday, and Chipotle closed up 2.5 percent at $334.61.





(Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Liana B. Baker; Editing by Leslie Adler)CA also used 'sex compass' and other quiz apps for sucking Facebook data, says former employeeApr.18 -- Bloomberg’s Ed Hammond discusses criticisms by Bill Ackman towards Newell's dealing with Carl Icahn. He speaks with Alix Steel and David Westin on "Bloomberg Daybreak: Americas."100,000,000.

After declining for years to disclose how many people pay for Amazon Prime, Amazon (AMZN) CEO Jeff Bezos revealed on Wednesday in his annual letter to shareholders that over 100 million people globally have joined Amazon’s membership club.

“13 years post-launch, we have exceeded 100 million paid Prime members globally,” Bezos wrote.

“In 2017 Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year – both worldwide and in the U.S. Members in the U.S. now receive unlimited free two-day shipping on over 100 million different items.”

Bezos added that same-day and one-day delivery are now on offer to Prime members in 8,000 cities and towns and that Prime Now — which can deliver goods to customers in just hours — is available in 50 cities and nine countries.

Previous estimates had pegged Amazon’s Prime membership at around 90 million, but this number had not been confirmed by the company. Research has also indicated that Prime members spend about $1,300 per year on Amazon.com, $600 more than what the non-Prime Amazon customer spends.

In after hours trade, Amazon shares were up about 1.5% after Bezos’ disclosure.

In previous letters to shareholders, Bezos has discussed Amazon’s goal of making Prime such a good value that customers would be “irresponsible” not to pay for the service, which costs $99 a year in the U.S. and offers two-day free shipping among other benefits for members.

Part of Amazon’s efforts to build its Prime member base has been its investment in Prime Video, its streaming service that competes with Netflix (NFLX) and Hulu, among others.

“Prime Video continues to drive Prime member adoption and retention,” Bezos said in his letter. “In the last year we made Prime Video even better for customers by adding new, award-winning Prime Originals to the service, like The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, winner of two Critics’ Choice Awards and two Golden Globes, and the Oscar-nominated movie The Big Sick.”

Bezos also said that Amazon’s streaming of NFL games on Thursday night accumulated more than 18 million viewers over 11 games. Amazon reportedly paid $50 million to stream NFL games, meaning it cost them about $2.78 for each viewer.

A recent survey from Loop Capital Markets indicated that 23% of Prime members would definitely cancel their membership if streaming were not included.

—

Myles Udland is a writer at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter @MylesUdland

Read more from Myles here:By Sinéad Carew

NEW YORK (Reuters) - The S&P 500 eked out a small gain while the Dow declined after a volatile trading session on Wednesday, with weakness in sectors such as consumer staples and financials offsetting strong gains in the energy and industrial indexes.

Higher oil prices boosted energy stocks while transport stocks such as CSX Corp helped the industrial sector. But IBM's (IBM.N) 7.5 percent drop was the biggest drag on the S&P after the technology company's quarterly profit margins missed Wall Street targets.

"There's a lot of headlines pulling the market in different directions. The most notable is energy prices pulling that sector higher," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise in Boston.

Joy attributed a drop in financial stocks to a flattening yield curve in U.S. treasuries.

"Earnings and the yield curve are the two biggest influences," said Joy, adding that "transports are very strong today which is a very good sign for the economy."

No. 3 U.S. railroad operator CSX (CSX.O) jumped 7.8 percent after topping profit estimates. Its news lifted other railroads, and helped to push the Dow Jones Transport index (.DJT) up 1.7 percent.

Also United Continental (UAL.N) gained 4.8 percent and lifted other airline stocks after reporting a better-than-expected quarterly profit.

Trading was choppy, with the Dow swinging between positive and negative territory while the S&P 500 gave up most of its gains in the last few minutes of trading.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) fell 38.56 points, or 0.16 percent, to 24,748.07, the S&P 500 (.SPX) gained 2.25 points, or 0.08 percent, to 2,708.64 and the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) added 14.14 points, or 0.19 percent, to 7,295.24.

In late afternoon trade the S&P briefly lost ground after a Federal Reserve report said robust business borrowing, rising consumer spending, and tight labor markets indicated the U.S. economy is on track for continued growth, with trade war risks being the one big outlier.

However, Mark Heppenstall, chief investment officer at Penn Mutual Asset Management in Horsham, Pennsylvania, said investors were hopeful for a positive outcome with China.

"China trade tensions seem to have moved to the back burner," he said. "Earnings are part of the equation as well. The bar was high. There was a risk expectations would outpace what comes through but generally earnings have been favorable."

Wall Street expects S&P 500 first-quarter earnings to grow 19.4 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data.

Oil futures (CLc1) settled up 2.9 percent due to a decline in U.S. crude inventories and after sources signaled top exporter Saudi Arabia wants to see crude prices closer to $100 a barrel. The S&P energy sector (.SPNY) was up 1.6 percent. [O/R]

The CBOE Volatility index (.VIX) ended up 0.35 point at 15.60, its first daily increase after six days of declines.

Lam Research (LRCX.O) fell 4 percent on analyst concerns about a slowdown in demand for its chip equipment.

The Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index (.SOX) finished down 1 percent.

Advancing issues outnumbered declining ones on the NYSE by a 1.26-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.09-to-1 ratio favored advancers.

The S&P 500 posted 39 new 52-week highs and two new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 131 new highs and 36 new lows.

On U.S. exchanges 6.46 billion shares changed hands, compared to the almost 7 billion average for the last 20 days.





(Additional reporting by Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernadette Baum and James Dalgleish)Gas prices have risen this month. And if they rise $1.05 per gallon off their current marks, it would eat the disposable income gains of last year’s tax cut legislation, according to Deutsche Bank analysis.

The national average is now $2.76 a gallon, according to GasBuddy, which is close to the most recent high in mid-2015. A $1 gain per gallon would represent a full return to the soaring prices of 2014, when the average price for a gallon approached $3.70. From 2011 to mid-2014, prices were at this level.

While a $1 increase would be required to cancel out benefits for families of all income levels, lower-income families’ gains would be wiped out much more quickly.

Gas is a bigger percentage of the budget for lower-income Americans. And the tax cut benefits higher-income Americans substantially more. (Deutsche Bank) More

In fact, Deutsche Bank analysts expect this to happen sometime this year for these lower-income groups, as the rise in disposable income gets eclipsed by rising oil and gas prices.

Lower-income families usually spend a higher percentage of their budget on gas, making price changes more pointed. The lowest-earning 20% of American families spend 8% of their household budget on gas and oil. For the top 20%, it’s less than 2%.

But that’s not the only factor. The tax cuts heavily favor wealthier households, giving them more of a push even if they’re paying more in gas. For the bottom 20% of families by income, the tax cut gains are only around $50, according to the U.S. government’s Joint Committee on Taxation. At the same time, a household that earns $200,000 would save $12,000. At 2014 prices — the worst-case of gas prices in recent memory — that would pay for 81,075 miles in a 25 mpg vehicle.

According to Deutsche Bank, the relationship of disposable income and energy has long been a tight one. For every one-cent rise in gas prices, consumer spending on non-energy goods and services has fallen $1.16 billion. So thus far, from last year, analysts are expecting a reduction of income allocated to non-energy stuff to fall by $35 billion.

Gas is cheaper than it was in 2014, but we’re approaching the most expensive point in three years. (Gas Buddy) More

—

Ethan Wolff-Mann is a writer at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter @ewolffmann. Confidential tip line: FinanceTips[at]oath[.com].

Online-only savings accounts are banking’s best-kept secret

What millennial investors should be learning from 2018FILE PHOTO: A Bitcoin logo is seen on a cryptocurrency ATM in Santa Monica, California, U.S., January 4, 2018. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson/File Photo

By Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Cryptocurrency funds were down 29.2 percent in March amid an ongoing slump caused by increased scrutiny from global regulators of the virtual assets, according to a new index launched by data provider BarclayHedge.

The Barclay Cryptocurrency Traders Index was down 43.1 percent in the year to date, after three consecutive monthly losses, BarclayHedge said on Wednesday.

The Cryptocurrency Traders Index, started in 2018, is an equal-weighted index of the monthly returns of 19 funds that trade bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.

Volatile bitcoin hit an all-time high of just under $20,000 in December 2017 and has since fallen to as low as $5,920. On Wednesday, it was up 4.2 percent on the day at $8,232 (BTC=BTSP) on the BitStamp platform.

Cryptocurrencies have been impacted this year by fears of a crackdown from regulators and concerns that they have been in a speculative bubble that is now deflating.

"Folks have their opinions, but no one really knows if it's a bubble or a correction," said Sol Waksman, president and founder of BarclayHedge.

Data from financial technology data tracker Autonomous NEXT also confirm the bear trend.

"There has been a slow-down in ICO (initial coin offering) proceeds that we track ($1 million and over), with a dip in February and a slight pick-up in March in terms of fundraising," Autonomous NEXT said in a report also published this week.

ICOs are a fund-raising mechanism in which start-ups create currencies or tokens and sell them to investors.

"There is also definitely a slow-down in terms of ICOs starting in March. So it seems that the public crowd-funding part of the equation is indeed getting slower, looking like the summer of last year, rather than the frenzy of the fall/winter," London-based Autonomous NEXT said.

The number of new funds in the company's crypto fund tracker has also grown modestly in 2018, it said.

Autonomous NEXT said it is tracking 251 crypto funds.

"The number is not growing as quickly as we'd expect - partly because it's a more difficult environment to raise, and partly because folks are being less vocal about what they're doing," the company said.





(Reporting by Gertrude Chavez-Dreyfuss, Editing by Rosalba O'Brien)Refueling your Chevy car or truck is about to get a little easier with the launch of Chevy’s new in-dash payment system. The service, which is being beta tested in Detroit, Seattle and Houston, is part of General Motors’ (GM) Marketplace commerce platform and will allow drivers to pay for their gas from inside their vehicles via their infotainment systems.

The in-dash service will only be available at participating Shell (RDS-A, RDS-B) stations in the near term, but will reach all stations by the end of the year. Chevy says it’s also working with ExxonMobil to bring the service to that company’s gas stations, though no timeline has been announced.

To make in-car payments you’ll have to download and open the Shell app, which will then send your location (without any privately identifiable information) to Shell so it knows which station you’re at.

You then tap “Pay and Save” on your vehicle’s display. After choosing the payment method you want to use, you’ll receive a three-digit code for the pump at which you’ll refuel. Go to the pump, enter the code and you can start refueling. The feature even lets you use your Shell Fuel Rewards program.

The Chevy in-dash payment service in action. More

Chevy says that the in-car payment service will use your vehicle’s built-in 4G LTE connection but won’t require you to sign up for any actual data plans, which is a plus.

The Marketplace in-vehicle app is available on all eligible 2017 and newer Chevy, Cadillac and GMC cars and trucks, and will reach about 4 million vehicles by the end of 2018.

Of course, as convenient as not having to walk into the gas station or pull out your credit card to pay for gas is, you still need to step out of your car to use the actual pump, so it’s not like you’re going to be able to stay in your vehicle the entire time. Unless you’re in New Jersey, that is.

What’s the big benefit? Well, you’ll be able to avoid credit card skimmers that can steal your card information at the pump, and even if you don’t have your card on you, you’ll still be able to pay for gas.

The main reason for the service, though, seems to be that it’s pretty darn cool. In order for it to take off, however, it’s going to need to be faster than just walking over to the pump and swiping or tapping your credit card. If it’s slower, don’t expect many people to use the in-car payment option.

Now if they could just find a way to automate changing my car’s oil, I’ll be set.

More from Dan:

Email Daniel Howley at dhowley@yahoo-inc.com; follow him on Twitter at @DanielHowley.

Follow Yahoo Finance on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedInChevrolet will introduce a new technology feature that will allow drivers to pay for gas at the pump from inside their vehicles without having to swipe a credit card or use their smartphone. Chevy will embed the capability in its new Marketplace in-dash e-commerce platform, rolling it out nationwide in the coming months and offering it in partnership with Shell at participating Shell-branded stations.



Users will press the Shell icon on the dashboard touchscreen to select their preferred station location, tap a few buttons, enter the pump number and a pre-selected PIN number associated with their desired payment method, and get a code to enter at the pump and start fueling. Afterward, they get a confirmation, like a receipt, directly on the Marketplace interface. The program also incorporates Shell's Fuel Rewards savings program.



All told, that's three different numbers or codes you'll have to enter just to spare yourself from having to pull out your wallet or smartphone, though we suppose it does offer some appeal if you're fueling up in a bad neighborhood or if it's freezing outside.



General Motors announced its new Marketplace technology in December as a way to let vehicle occupants order coffee or food, find gas stations and reserve hotel rooms from their infotainment screens. GM said it planned to immediately upload the technology to about 1.9 million model-year 2017 and newer Chevy, Buick, GMC and Cadillac vehicles, and about 4 million vehicles by the end of 2018.



GM gets revenue from merchants featured on the Marketplace platform, with revenue shared to some undisclosed degree between merchants and the automaker. The app, which has been panned by the National Safety Council as likely to add to distracted-driving accidents, debuted with retailers including Shell, ExxonMobil, Starbucks and TGI Fridays.



Ford has also been working with Amazon to integrate Alexa capabilities including adding to shopping lists inside its vehicles, and the number of automakers looking to get in on the always-connected e-commerce game is likely to grow in the coming years, for better or worse.



Related Video:Personal income in the United States has been steadily rising. But once bills and the rent are paid, how do consumers spend their discretionary dollars?

Consumers in North America are most likely to spend on technology, according to a new global survey from Acceleration Partners, a UK-based digital marketing agency. A disproportionate amount (34%) of North American respondents said tech-related purchases were their biggest sector spend.

In contrast, Europeans and South Americans value fashion and beauty, with 31% and 17% of respondents, respectively, identifying the sector as the area they spend the most of their extra income.

Asians prioritize food and drink, with 16% of respondents stating that they spend the majority of their discretionary income on wining and dining.

Chiang Mai, Thailand – Asians spend most of their extra income on food. More

Australians, on the other hand, prioritize travel, with 24% of respondents claiming they spend their leftover income on both domestic and international travel. Eighteen percent of African respondents said they spend most of their extra income on leisure pursuits.

Story ContinuesDavid Hogg, an 18-year-old high school senior and survivor of the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, is now an outspoken gun law activist. He took to Twitter on Tuesday to encourage a boycott of BlackRock (BLK) and The Vanguard Group.

BlackRock, Invesco (IVZ) and Vanguard are the top three institutional holders of American Outdoor Brands (AOBC), the parent company of Smith & Wesson Corp., one of the world’s largest gun manufacturers. BlackRock and Vanguard are also the largest holders of gunmaker Sturm Ruger (RGR).

Many of these funds are passively managed, which means companies like American Outdoor Brands and Sturm Ruger are in their portfolios because they are part of major stock market indexes.

Earlier this month, BlackRock, the world’s largest asset manager, announced that it would offer two new exchange-traded funds and new index-tracking products for pensions and 401(k) plans that exclude stocks of gunmakers and large gun retailers. This was in response to the mounting pressure from customers urging Wall Street to take a stand on the gun debate.

The new funds will not invest in American Outdoor Brands, Sturm Ruger, Walmart (WMT), Dick’s Sporting Goods (DKS), Kroger (KR), and Vista Outdoor (VSTO), a BlackRock spokesperson told CNBC.

Vanguard offers the FTSE Social Index Fund, which screens companies based on social and environmental criteria, excluding gun manufacturers.

But, Hogg is not satisfied with these auxiliary options and is encouraging his 764,000 followers to boycott holding groups like Vanguard and BlackRock.

In a statement to Yahoo Finance, a Vanguard spokesperson said the firm “shares many individuals’ concerns about public safety and firearm access and hopes that policymakers take appropriate action to protect Americans from gun violence. Schools, churches and public spaces should always be safe places for all individuals.”

“Vanguard is taking action, meeting with the leaders of gun manufacturers and distributors. We want to know how they will mitigate the risks that their products pose and how they plan to help prevent such tragedies from happening again. We believe that boards and managements of gun manufacturers should disclose and reduce the risks associated with gun violence and the ongoing national debate on gun safety and control. We believe that when a business poses a risk to society, it can also pose a risk to investors. We are expressing this viewpoint directly with company leaders because we believe greater focus and transparency on these issues will ultimately benefit society and investors alike,” she added.

Hogg started a similar campaign last month when Fox News host Laura Ingraham mocked his college rejection letters. Ingraham lost 27 advertisers and took a weeklong hiatus after Hogg’s tweet and the subsequent movement spearheaded by progressive group Media Matters for America. However, “The Ingraham Angle” saw its highest ratings ever after the boycott.

—

Melody Hahm is a senior writer at Yahoo Finance, covering entrepreneurship, technology and real estate. Follow her on Twitter @melodyhahm.

Read more:Parkland student and gun legislation campaigner David Hogg has called for investors to boycott BlackRock Inc and The Vanguard Group, two of the world’s largest investment management companies, over their holdings in gun companies.

“[BlackRock] and [Vanguard] are two of the biggest investors in gun manufacturers; if you use them, feel free to let them know,” Hogg said Tuesday in a series of tweets, with the hashtags #BoycottVanguard and #BoycottBlackRock.

David Hogg More

Noam Galai/WireImage

Trending: Is America Ready to Vote for Oprah? | Opinion

Hogg is among the most prominent of a group of students who have led a national campaign for gun legislation reform in the wake of the February 14 shootings at the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, in which 17 people were killed.





BlackRock and Vanguard are two of the largest managers of exchange traded funds, and are the biggest owners of publicly traded firearms manufacturers, including Storm Ruger and American Outdoor Brands.

Don't miss: Kyle Plush: Family of Teen Killed by Minivan Seat Storms out of Council Meeting Following Compensation Suggestion

Hogg led a boycott campaign against Fox News host Laura Ingraham after she mocked him on Twitter about his college admissions, leading to several companies cutting ties with her show, The Ingraham Angle. He has also called for boycotts of companies with ties to the National Rifle Association gun rights lobbying group, such as Hertz and FedEx.

BlackRock has said it will create new funds for investors who wish to avoid holding stocks in gun manufacturers. It has also said it will hold discussions with gun manufacturers about their businesses.

It declined to comment on Hogg's tweets.

Most popular: Trump’s Strikes on Syria Have Little To Do With Syria’s Ongoing Conflict | Opinion

A Vanguard spokesperson told CNN that most Vanguard funds "do not have exposure to gun manufacturers," and that 359 of its 388 funds do not directly invest in Sturm Ruger, American Outdoor Brands or Vista Outdoor.

It also said that investors can put money in a social fund that excludes gun manufacturers.

"Importantly, Vanguard is taking action, meeting with the leaders of gun manufacturers and distributors," the company said in a statement. "We want to know how they will mitigate the risks that their products pose and how they plan to help prevent such tragedies from happening again."

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekThe last few weeks haven’t exactly been that great for investors. Thanks to a variety of factors, volatility has returned with a vengeance and we’ve actually seen some big intraday price swings and declines. In fact, the S&P 500 is barely positive on the year and is more than 6% below its peak reached at the end of January. And that decline has hit all matter of equities.

This includes some pretty great dividend stocks.

There are now plenty of dividend stocks that have wonderful long-term futures that have only been blurred by the recent downturn and volatility. There’s nothing wrong with them, their cash flows or other important dividend-related metrics. It’s simply a case of overall market volatility hitting hem hard. For patient investors, snagging up shares of these stocks now and collecting their dividends makes a ton of sense.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

With that, here are five recently unsteady dividend stocks with great futures.





Dividend Stocks That Will Win Longer Term: 3M Co (MMM)

3M MMM stock More

Source: Dean Hochman via Flickr (Modified)

Dividend Yield: 2.5%

After being one of the Dow’s biggest gainers last year, global industrial giant 3M Co (NYSE:MMM) has turned into a real loser in 2018. Shares of the former Minnesota Metals & Mining are down over $30 per share since hitting their peak back in January. However, that drop could be exactly what investors need to start buying 3M in spades.

Despite the recent trade war issues, 3M’s global focus and mega-sized product catalog are exactly what investors want over the long haul. This allows its profit from a variety of regions and sectors — no matter who/what is doing well. This broad net has allowed 3M to continue to reap higher cash flows. Last year, free cash flows came in at $6.2 billion.

With the strengthening global economy and 3M’s focus on higher-margined products in healthcare and industrial applications, there’s no reason why the firm couldn’t continue to deliver on similar free cash flows. And its management is counting on that fact.

3M has long been one of the best dividend stocks, but with a 16% jump in its payout this year and its drop in price, shares now yield a 2.5% — a mark not seen in years.

For investors, 3M’s long-term is certainly rosy, while the price is right in the near term.





Dividend Stocks That Will Win Longer Term: UPS (UPS)

ups stock More

Source: Mike Mozart Via Flickr

Dividend Yield: 3.3%

Rising online sales have been a boon for logistics giant United Parcel Service, Inc. (NYSE:UPS). Except there is one problem — there have been too many online packages. UPS has continued to suffer as the lumpiness of online ordering has hurt margins and its bottom lines And that lumpiness has actually caused major customers like Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) to consider other delivery options.

As a result, UPS stock has plunged in a big way.

But the outlook is still pretty good for UPS and the recent dip could offer a big buying opportunity.

For starters, rising online sales is still benefiting the firm, and while it can’t squeeze Amazon on pricing, it can for smaller firms. That should help its bottom line overall and reduce the damage. Secondly, rising business shipping — thanks to the growing economy — is also helping. Add in a dose of tech spending and UPS’s outlook is much brighter. Analysts expect the firm to earn 7.29% more in earnings per share next year based on these trends.

With a forward P/E of just 15 and a 3.3% dividend yield, UPS is priced for perfection after the drop.

Story ContinuesZytronic, S&U, and A & J Mucklow Group all share one thing in common. They are on our list of top paying dividend stocks which have helped grow my portfolio income over the past couple of months. A sizeable part of portfolio returns can be produced by dividend stocks due to their contribution to compounding returns in the long run. Today I will share with you my best paying dividend shares you should be considering for your portfolio.

Zytronic plc (AIM:ZYT)

Zytronic plc, together with its subsidiaries, develops and manufactures interactive touch sensor products. Started in 1999, and currently lead by Mark Cambridge, the company now has 190 employees and with the market cap of GBP £70.59M, it falls under the small-cap group.

ZYT has a substantial dividend yield of 4.32% and their payout ratio stands at 65.51% , with the expected payout in three years being 85.81%. ZYT has increased its dividend from UK£0.03 to UK£0.19 over the past 10 years. They have been dependable too, not missing a single payment in this time. The company has a lower PE ratio than the GB Electronic industry, which interested investors would be happy to see. The company’s PE is currently 15.2 while the industry is sitting higher at 16.8. More detail on Zytronic here.

AIM:ZYT Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

S&U plc provides consumer credit and motor finance services in the United Kingdom. Started in 1938, and now run by Anthony Coombs, the company employs 140 people and with the market cap of GBP £285.97M, it falls under the small-cap category.

SUS has a great dividend yield of 4.40% and pays out 51.52% of its profit as dividends . Over the past 10 years, SUS has increased its dividends from UK£0.32 to UK£1.05. The company has been a dependable payer too, not missing a payment in this 10 year period. Continue research on S&U here.

LSE:SUS Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

A & J Mucklow Group Plc (LSE:MKLW)

A&J Mucklow Group Plc is a long established Midlands based property company focusing on the long term ownership and development of industrial and commercial property. Founded in 1933, and headed by CEO David Parker, the company provides employment to 11 people and with the company’s market cap sitting at GBP £344.96M, it falls under the small-cap category.

MKLW has a enticing dividend yield of 4.06% and their current payout ratio is 28.16% , with analysts expecting the payout ratio in three years to be 89.37%. The company’s DPS has increased from UK£0.16 to UK£0.22 over the last 10 years. They have been reliable as well, ensuring that shareholders haven’t missed a payment during this 10 year period. The company recorded earnings growth of 153.27% in the past year, comparing favorably with the gb reits industry average of 84.21%. More on A & J Mucklow Group here.

Story ContinuesHolding a stake in great businesses that regularly pay dividends and then reinvesting those payouts is one of the most dependable paths to long-term wealth creation. The challenge, then, is finding companies that are positioned to sustain a high level of performance and keep that returned income flowing while also shoring up the future of the business.

With that in mind, we asked three Motley Fool investors to identify a top high-yield stock that's worth holding forever. Read on to see why they picked UBS (NYSE: UBS), International Business Machines (NYSE: IBM), and AT&T (NYSE: T).

A golden piggy bank standing in front of three stacks of golden coins, ascending in size from left to right. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Safe as a Swiss bank -- because it is one

Rich Smith (UBS): How high is a "high yield?" Does nearly twice the average dividend payout on the S&P 500 qualify? Because if it does, then UBS Group AG just might be the stock you're looking for.

UBS pays a 3.9% dividend yield, which seems pretty high to me, given that the average stock on the S&P pays just 2%. Admittedly, right now UBS doesn't look like it should be paying so much out in dividend checks, as "3.9%" is about 122% more money than UBS actually earned last year. But here's the thing -- and here's why I think UBS stock might be worth a look despite its high payout ratio and similarly high P/E ratio (currently 61 times earnings).

Last year, UBS's profits got hit by the one-two punch of a $1.2 billion restructuring charge, and a $4.2 billion income tax bill. That tax bite, however, was much more than UBS had paid in any of the previous five years. In fact, it was more than UBS paid in all of the previous five years combined. As such, it seems likely that last year's tax hit was a one-time thing related primarily to the effects of tax reform in the U.S., and not likely to repeat in future years. Going forward, I think it more likely we'll see UBS turn in annual profits closer to the $3.2 billion it earned in 2016 -- or even the $6.2 billion it earned in 2015 -- than the $1.1 billion it earned last year.

With a corporate history stretching back more than 150 years, UBS is a bank stock built to stand the test of time -- and to keep on paying you dividends forever.

A century of dividends

Tim Green (International Business Machines): IBM investors have missed out on the raging bull market in technology stocks. While the Nasdaq 100 index has more than doubled over the past five years, shares of IBM have shed about 25% of their value. A half-decade of slumping revenue kept many investors away from the century-old tech giant.

That decline is now over, with IBM reporting revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 2017 and expecting growth to continue this year. The actions that the company has taken over the past five years or so, including investing in growth businesses like cloud computing and artificial intelligence, are starting to show tangible results. Growth businesses generated $36.5 billion of revenue last year, up 11%, while the cloud business grew by 24% to $17 billion.

A technology company doesn't survive for more than a century without building up a track record of transformation. IBM's latest turnaround isn't its first, and it won't be its last. This ability to adapt is a key reason to buy and hold the stock.

For dividend investors, another reason to buy and hold the stock is a world-class dividend. IBM's current quarterly payout of $1.50 per share works out to a yield of 3.8%, and the company is widely expected to raise that dividend this month, making it 23 years in row. IBM has paid a quarterly dividend without interruption since 1916, through the Great Depression, two World Wars, and its near-collapse in the 1990s.1 in 20 Americans Is a Millionaire. Here’s How You Can Become 1 of Them More

Who wants to be a millionaire? You do, so find out how. Here are the strategies that will help the average Americans get rich.If you're falling behind on your retirement savings, you're not alone. Roughly 61% of Americans have less than $100,000 in total savings, and around 42% of those people have saved $10,000 or less, according to a recent GoBankingRates survey.

The No. 1 reason people gave for not having much stashed away? That they don't earn enough money to be able to save anything.

Broken piggy bank with coins falling out More

Image source: Getty Images.

No matter how much money you make, it's important to save for retirement unless you plan to work the rest of your life. The good news is that even small contributions to your retirement fund can add up over time, so even if you're not loaded with cash, you can still beef up your nest egg by the time you retire.

Starting small is better than not starting at all

Through the power of compound interest, your savings can grow exponentially over time -- which means that the earlier you start saving, the better. And if you start early enough, even the smallest contributions can ultimately grow to hundreds of thousands of dollars.

For example, say you're just starting out saving and can contribute $50 per month. If you're earning a 7% annual rate of return on your investments, that $50 per month can turn into around $124,275 over 40 years. Granted, that may not be enough to last you through retirement, but it's infinitely better than not contributing anything and ending up with zero retirement savings.

Also, by waiting even a few years to start saving, you'll have a much more difficult time catching up. In this instance, if you're saving $50 per month, waiting just five years to start saving will leave you with just $86,054, rather than $124,275 had you started saving earlier -- a difference of nearly $40,000.

If you start early enough, even big savings goals are more achievable. For instance, say you want to have $500,000 saved by the time you turn 65. If you're earning a 7% rate of return on your investments each year, here's how much you'd have to save every month to meet that goal depending on when you start saving:

Age You Start Saving Contributions per Month Total Savings at Age 65 25 $200 $497,102 35 $425 $499,827 45 $980 $500,198 55 $2,900 $498,855

This is not to say that if you get a late start that it's not worth saving at all; even a small retirement fund is better than no retirement savings at all. But if you're stuck in the starting gate because you're worried small contributions are worthless, it's better to put whatever you can toward your retirement fund while time is on your side.

The 401(k): Your secret weapon

If you have access to a 401(k) through your employer with matching contributions, take full advantage of it. Those matching contributions from your employer can double your savings, creating even bigger gains over time.

For example, say you're earning $40,000 per year, and your employer will match 100% of your contributions up to 3% of your salary -- or up to $1,200 per year. If you contribute $1,200 per year yourself (or $100 per month), that brings your total yearly savings to $2,400. At that rate, assuming a 7% annual rate of return on your savings, you'll have around $512,663 saved after 40 years. Not bad for contributing what amounts to around $3 per day.

Even if you can't contribute enough to earn the full employer match, every little bit counts -- after all, not contributing anything is essentially leaving free money on the table. If you're contributing, say, $50 per month (or $600 per year) and your employer matches that $600 per year, you'll end up with just over $250,000 after 40 years. Again, not too bad for making relatively small contributions each month.

When you're focused on just paying the bills each month, saving for retirement may be the last thing on your mind. But you don't need a lot of money to build up your retirement fund, because even baby steps will take you a long way over the course of your career.

More From The Motley Fool

The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.By Rania El Gamal and Alex Lawler

DUBAI/LONDON (Reuters) - Top oil exporter Saudi Arabia would be happy to see crude rise to $80 or even $100 a barrel, three industry sources said, a sign Riyadh will seek no changes to an OPEC supply-cutting deal even though the agreement's original target is within sight.

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Russia and several other producers began to reduce supply in January 2017 in an attempt to erase a glut. They have extended the pact until December 2018 and meet in June to review policy.

OPEC is closing in on the original target of the pact - reducing industrialised nations' oil inventories to their five-year average. There is no indication yet, however, that Saudi Arabia or its allies want to wind down the supply cut.

Over the past year, Saudi Arabia has emerged as OPEC's leading supporter of measures to boost prices, a change from its more moderate stance in earlier years. Iran, once a keen OPEC price hawk, now wants lower prices than Saudi Arabia.

Industry sources have linked this shift in Saudi Arabia's stance to its desire to support the valuation of state oil company Aramco ahead of the kingdom's planned sale of a minority stake in an initial public offering.

The supply cut has helped boost oil prices this year to $73 a barrel, the highest since November 2014. Oil began a slide from above $100 - a price that Saudi Arabia endorsed in 2012 - in mid-2014, when growing supply from rival sources such as U.S. shale began to swamp the market.

But the kingdom wants the rally to go further. Two industry sources said a desired crude price of $80 or even $100 was circulated by senior Saudi officials in closed-door briefings in recent weeks.

"We have come full circle," a separate high-level industry source said of the change in Saudi thinking. "I would not be surprised if Saudi Arabia wanted oil at $100 until this IPO is out of the way."

Once the Aramco share sale is done, Riyadh would still want higher prices to help fund initiatives such as Vision 2030, an economic reform plan championed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.

"Saudi Arabia wants higher oil prices and yes, probably for the IPO, but it isn't just that," an OPEC source said.

"Look at the economic reforms and projects they want to do, and the war in Yemen. How are they going to pay for all that? They need higher prices."

To be sure, OPEC and Saudi Arabia have no official price target and say the objective of the production cut is to balance supply and demand, and reduce the inventory glut.

But guidance on preferred price levels comes from officials speaking off the record, and from industry sources who have discussed the issue with Saudi officials.

"I personally think that now $70 is the floor for oil prices," a second OPEC source said. "But OPEC is unlikely to make any changes in June, maybe by the end of the year. The market still needs support."





TALKS IN JEDDAH

OPEC and its partners meet on June 22 to review policy and before then a ministerial monitoring panel gathers in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on April 20.

By OPEC's parameters, the deal has worked. Oil stocks in developed economies in February stood a mere 43 million barrels above the latest five-year average, down from 340 million barrels above in January 2017.

The cuts have been even bigger than those specified in the deal, thanks in part to a slide in Venezuelan production due to an economic crisis in the South American country.

Compliance has reached 150 percent, according to OPEC, meaning the organisation's members have cut production by about 1.8 million barrels per day, 600,000 bpd more than pledged.

Few OPEC sources call for an exit strategy. Most officials are talking of introducing additional inventory metrics to assess the success of the deal, and of a need to support investment in new production to avert any supply crunch.

The impression is that oil prices are seen as not yet high enough to encourage sufficient oil investment.

"We will know what will be the good price when the market is balanced and we have enough investments," the United Arab Emirates' energy minister, Suhail al-Mazroui, told Reuters last week. "We need to have more investments coming."

The Jeddah meeting of the Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee is unlikely to change the parameters for assessing the deal's success, Mazroui and other OPEC officials said, and sources see little chance of a major tweak in June.

"Even if we reach the five-year average before June, it does not mean we just go and open the taps," a third OPEC source said. "We have to test it."





(Editing by Dale Hudson)Steve Wynn, the embattled former CEO of Wynn resorts, resolved a longstanding fight with his ex-wife, Elaine, over claims that he violated the terms of their shareholders’ agreement.

Elaine Wynn also agreed to release the company and its general counsel, Kim Sinatra, from breach of contract allegations, Wynn Resorts said. In return, Sinatra and Wynn Resorts dropped their claims against her.

Neither Wynn Resorts nor Sinatra paid any money to Elaine Wynn, though Steve Wynn is said to have paid her an undisclosed amount, according to The Wall Street Journal.

The battle, which had been ongoing for six years, involved claims that Elaine Wynn had been wrongfully removed from the company’s board of directors. There was also an agreement between the pair and an ex-business partner that prevented any of the parties from selling their shares without permission from the others, which was dissolved last month.

Late last month, the casino mogul sold his remaining shares in Wynn Resorts, netting him more than $2.1 billion. He owned a 12% stake in the company, which he founded. The businessman faces allegations of sexual misconduct and resigned as chairman and CEO of the company in early February. He has denied any wrongdoing.

Steve and Elaine Wynn, who divorced in 2010, came to an agreement in court that allows both to unwind their collective 21% stake, worth $4 billion.

Elaine Wynn is now the company’s largest shareholder, owning a stake worth more than 9%.

Related ArticlesRobert Nardelli, former General Electric insider, discusses what new GE CEO John Flannery needs to do to turn the company around.U.S. first quarter earnings supported the market, though the composition of gains for banks and financials has drawn scrutiny, says Scott Nations of NationsShares.Investing.com - JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM) says first-quarter earnings will be better than expected, driven by more than the benefit of lower corporate taxes.In a note to clients, the Wall Street firm said it expects earnings to rise by 21%, well above the consensus forecast of 17.5%.JPMorgan says earnings will be lifted by a host of economic factors, including rising disposable income and consumer confidence.The firm says strong corporate profits and record share buybacks will drive stock prices higher, after a unusually volatile period in which the market suffered two corrections in a little more than a month.Earnings rose just under 15% in the fourth quarter and are forecast to grow by 18.5% for all of 2018.Facebook could have to pay 'billions' in damages in class action lawsuit over facial recognition (FB)

Facebook faces a class-action lawsuit over its use of facial recognition technology to tag people in photos.

The decision by a US district judge means the company could be sued by millions of US users.

According to the judge's order, damages could rack up to billions of dollars if Facebook loses.

Facebook said the case has no merit.



Facebook could have to pay billions of dollars in damages in a class action lawsuit over facial recognition, according to various reports.

US District Judge James Donato ruled that Facebook can be sued by three Illinois users who claim the firm gathered biometric data through facial recognition without their explicit consent.

They are referring to Facebook's "tag suggestions" feature, which uses facial recognition to suggest which friends to tag in a photo.

Facebook facial recognition tag suggestions More

Facebook/Business Insider

The three users have sued under an Illinois state law called the Biometric Information Privacy Act, which affords certain people protections over information such as fingerprints, retina scans, and facial recognition data.

Donato's decision to classify the suit as a class action means Facebook could be sued by millions of users in the state. In his order, Donato wrote: "Facebook seems to believe ... statutory damages could amount to billions of dollars."

The suit wants damages of up to $5,000 (£3,482) for every time a person's image was used without their permission. If the suit is successful, every person in the class-action could receive a payout.

Facebook said the case had no merit. "We continue to believe the case has no merit and will defend ourselves vigorously," the company said in a statement, cited by Reuters.

The facial recognition feature isn't currently available in the UK. Facebook switched the feature off in Europe in 2012 after an audit by Ireland's data watchdog.

The company is now trying to roll out facial recognition technology inside the EU again, according to the Irish Times, but on an opt-in basis.

NOW WATCH: The top 10 games coming in 2018

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Facebook investors want to seize a golden opportunity to force out Mark Zuckerberg as chairmanFILE - In this May 16, 2012, file photo, the Facebook logo is displayed on an iPad in Philadelphia. A propaganda expert who has studied Cambridge Analytica says the company helped Donald Trump’s presidential campaign use false statements and anti-Muslim messages to spread fear and resentment in swing states he needed to win. Cambridge Analytica did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment from The Associated Press on the submission. However, it has denied it used the data scraped from an app that obtained material from Facebook users in the Trump campaign. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke, File)

LONDON (AP) -- Facebook is enhancing privacy safeguards for users around the world as it complies with new European rules designed to make it easier for consumers to give and withdraw consent for the use of their data.

Facebook is introducing the new policies this week in Europe, but eventually everyone on the social network will be asked to decide whether they want to enable features like facial recognition and some types of targeted advertising, the company said in a blog post.

"Everyone - no matter where they live - will be asked to review important information about how Facebook uses data and make choices about their privacy on Facebook," the company said in a blog post. "We'll begin by rolling these choices out in Europe this week."

The announcement comes as Facebook struggles with the fallout from revelations that a data analytics firm misused personal information from as many as 87 million Facebook accounts to help Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign. The European Union next month will begin enforcing its new General Data Protection Regulation, which explicitly applies to any company that uses the data of EU residents, no matter where it is based.

The privacy law is the latest attempt by EU regulators to rein in mostly American tech giants who they blame for avoiding tax, stifling competition and encroaching on digital privacy rights. The EU says the rules are the most important change in data privacy regulation in a generation as it tries to catch up with technological advances since 1995, when the last comprehensive rules were approved.

The EU rules require consent forms to be written in plain language anyone can understand, as the EU targets the legalese buried in pages of terms and conditions that few users actually read before clicking "I Agree." The regulations also require that consent must be as easy to withdraw as it is to give.

As part of the changes, Facebook users in Europe and Canada will for the first time be able to opt into the network's facial recognition technology, which has been available in most other parts of the world for the past six years, the company said.

Users will also be asked whether they want to allow Facebook to use data from partners such as apps and websites to tailor the ads they see, and whether they want to share political, religious or relationship information from their profiles.

"We not only want to comply with the law, but also go beyond our obligations to build new and improved privacy experiences for everyone on Facebook," the company said.

Meanwhile, the European Parliament renewed its call for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to testify about the data privacy scandal, after Zuckerberg offered to send a subordinate in his place.

In a letter to Zuckerberg on Wednesday, the EU assembly's president, Antonio Tajani, said that Europeans hit by the "scandal deserve a full and thorough explanation from Facebook's top manager."AT&T Inc. signage is displayed at the company\'s store in the Times Square area of New York, U.S., on Saturday, Oct. 22, 2016. According to a statement Saturday, AT&T agreed to buy Time Warner for $107.50 a share. Photographer: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg

AT&T Inc. and Time Warner Inc. may have gained an edge in the biggest merger trial in decades as the companies have exposed weaknesses in the Trump administration’s antitrust lawsuit to block their $85 billion merger, according to lawyers and economists following the battle.

As the U.S. rested its case Tuesday in the fifth week of the trial, AT&T and Time Warner have poked holes in the Justice Department’s claim that the deal would give them the power to raise prices on cable and satellite-TV competitors, and disadvantage competitors by coordinating with Comcast Corp., a major rival that went through a similar merger when it bought NBCUniversal.

More from Bloomberg.com: CIA Chief Pompeo Met Kim to Lay Ground for Trump Summit

On Wednesday, the corporate titans themselves will face off against the government’s antitrust enforcers with Time Warner Chief Executive Officer Jeff Bewkes expected to take the stand, followed by AT&T’s CEO Randall Stephenson on Thursday.

At the heart of the case is this: AT&T, which owns DirecTV, is the biggest pay-TV company in the U.S., while Time Warner’s Turner Broadcasting is the owner of numerous popular networks including CNN, TBS and TNT. The U.S. claims the combination is a recipe to raise prices for subscribers of AT&T’s competitors by more than $400 million a year.

More from Bloomberg.com: Jet Engine That Exploded Had Signs of Metal Weakness, U.S. Says

And all of this, the U.S. says, risks stunting the entrance of newer companies that threaten the traditional cable model, including streaming services such as Dish Network Corp.’s Sling TV that offer smaller bundles of networks to consumers seeking new ways to watch.

Attacked Centerpiece

AT&T and Time Warner have assailed the government’s case. Lead defense attorney Daniel Petrocelli and his team, over days of cross-examinations of the Justice Department’s witnesses, attacked the centerpiece of the case: a detailed study by economist Carl Shapiro, a former Justice Department official now at the University of California at Berkeley. Shapiro’s model and the data that went into predicting the price increases are unreliable, the companies say.

More from Bloomberg.com: Billionaire Banking Heir Matthew Mellon Dies at 54

The government’s model is highly theoretical and ignores some real-world facts, said Andre Barlow, an antitrust lawyer at Doyle Barlow & Mazard PLLC in Washington.

"It’s really theory versus economic and business realities," said Barlow, who isn’t involved in the case and thinks the government is having a tough time.

Investors have become more confident AT&T will win, based on the difference between the offer price of $104.56 and Time Warner’s share price. The spread is lower than when the lawsuit was filed in November and has declined since the trial started last month.

The government’s antitrust chief, Makan Delrahim, who made the decision to file the lawsuit last year, is sounding confident. When he was asked last week at a conference in Washington about whether losing the AT&T case would make it more difficult to challenge similar deals that don’t combine direct competitors, he said:

"We’re not going to lose."

The challenge for the Justice Department is that the inputs Shapiro used for his model to predict the price increases carry a lot of uncertainty, said Hal Singer, an economist at consulting firm Economists Inc. One of those inputs is how many subscribers would leave a cable or satellite-TV company if Time Warner’s Turner channels are pulled from the distributor and how many would switch to DirecTV. That’s a factor in how much leverage AT&T would have in programming negotiations. AT&T’s economic expert Dennis Carlton testified that tweaking those inputs slightly would push Shapiro’s predicted price increase to zero.

"The problem for the judge is you want to get comfortable that this estimate is basically bulletproof, said Singer, who isn’t involved in the case. "Even if you believe all of his inputs, they are all estimated with error, every one of them."

Judge’s Skepticism

Even U.S. District Judge Richard Leon, who is overseeing the trial, has expressed some skepticism about the government’s case. At the end of Shapiro’s testimony, Leon said he was "confused" about how Shapiro calculated the price increase to pay-TV subscribers. Shapiro tried to explain, and the judge still didn’t appear satisfied.

Story ContinuesTestifying today in the trial of the government’s lawsuit seeking to block its merger with AT&T, Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes painted a grim picture of the threat posed by tech giants, especially Facebook, Google and Amazon.

What Bewkes described as “tectonic changes” introduced by the companies, as well as Netflix and others over the past give years, are grounded in the amount of data they can gather about viewers. Time Warner, comparatively, is in the dark. “We know how many people are watching” networks such as HBO or TNT, he said. “But we don’t know their names. Our direct competitors do. …. They know all sorts of things that we don’t.” He hammered home that point on the advertising side, highlighting gains by digital players in a remarkably self-effacing display by a media executive on the eve of the upfronts, where the theme will be TV’s reliability and reach in a time of dubious data practices.

Building the infrastructure needed to match the data capabilities of tech companies programming and advertising direct to consumers instead of through middlemen or wholesalers is far too arduous, he said. “You need retail centers, call centers, customer service,” he said. Even when launching HBO Now, he said, the company relied on Amazon and Google for customer acquisition and other key business functions. And in the end, while HBO has evolved into a decent complement to the mother ship. “we still don’t know what those companies about their audiences.” An ad for a Chevrolet, he said, is shotgunned out to millions of viewers on Turner, whereas it can be served to a specific digital consumer who is looking to buy a Chevrolet, has good credit, lives in a certain part of the country, and so on.

During a brief recess, an attorney for the Department of Justice loudly mocked Bewkes in the hallway, within feet of reporters. “It’s like Doug and Wendy Whiner!” he said, evoking the 1970s Saturday Night Live sketch. “Competition is so hard!”

Testimony led by defense attorney Daniel Petrocelli lasted nearly two hours. The Department of Justice is poised to cross-examine Bewkes later this afternoon. AT&T entertainment chief John Stankey is slated to follow Bewkes, possibly before the close of business at 2:30PM PT.

Time Warner needs to combine with AT&T, Bewkes argued, because it would enable the companies to “get through for the next round” of intense media evolution. “It wasn’t that we weren’t trying to do these things before the merger. We were. Maybe we could get there without it. … But this was the fastest way.”

While still not as “rich” as the data controlled by the largest tech companies, AT&T’s data capabilities would transform Time Warner and have net benefits to consumers, Bewkes said. “The more you know about viewers,” he said. “The more it informs your programming. … It helps you understand how to optimize” everything from production to marketing to distribution.

Under questioning from Petrocelli, Bewkes patiently walked through several foundational aspects of his day-to-day business. Carriage deals. Skinny bundles. Direct-to-consumer apps. As Petrocelli stood at the lectern about 20 feet away, Bewkes often faced the judge, gesturing to emphasize his points and trying to explain the complexities of a changing world with as much clarity and patience as possible. It had the look of a first-class airplane passenger being asked what he does for a living. Judge Richard J. Leon, who is hearing the case without a jury, did not interject with any questions during the whole time Bewkes was on the stand. Observers in the courtroom are conflicted over how he will come to view the larger arguments being made in both directions, especially the key premise that AT&T and Time Warner are dwarfed by tech companies. Leon is not a fan of certain technology in the courtroom, certainly – a running joke in the month-old trial has been his disdain for PowerPoint decks. (Attorneys have propped up oversized poster boards on an easel instead.)

One of the cornerstones of the government’s suit is that it would harm consumers and rival companies, in part because it would raise fees but also because it would hamper innovation. Asked by Petrocelli to point to innovations that occurred when Time Warner Cable and Turner were both under the same roof, from 1995 to 2009. Bewkes, who started his career at HBO in 1979 in a junior sales and marketing role, pointed to the “multiplex” that allows viewers to see a dozen separate channels all broadcasting various iterations of HBO at the same time, and video on demand (VOD).Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes arrives ahead of arguments in the trial to determine if AT&T's merger with Time Warner is legal under antitrust law at U.S. District Court in Washington, U.S., March 22, 2018. REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

By Diane Bartz

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Time Warner <TWX.N> Chief Executive Jeff Bewkes on Wednesday defended his company's planned merger with AT&T <T.N> as necessary to compete effectively for advertising with internet giants like Google and Facebook.

Bewkes told Judge Richard Leon, who will decide if the $84.5 billion deal may go forward, that the Justice Department was wrong to say a merger would allow Time Warner to push for blackouts in negotiations with pay TV operators who wanted to show their content in order to allow AT&T subsidiary DirecTV to pick up more customers.

"I think it's ridiculous," said Bewkes, who has been CEO for more than 10 years. "If our channels are not in distribution we lose lots of money (from subscriptions and advertising)."

He said that "1 percent, less than 1 percent, maybe 2 percent" of subscribers would drop their pay TV subscription because of a blackout, far below the 12 percent estimated by an economist for the government who testified earlier in the trial.

He argued it was in Time Warner's best interest financially to licence its television channels, which range from movies to CNN to sports, broadly online.

Bewkes explained how Time Warner has been hampered in innovating and advertising because it does not have the granular information about viewers that pay TV and internet companies have.

With digital advertising, Chevrolet, for example, can target car ads at people looking to actually buy a car, he said.

AT&T has said a key benefit of owning Time Warner, whose networks include CNN and TBS, is that it can take data about its 141 million U.S. wireless subscribers and 25 million video subscribers and marry it with Time Warner's programming to enable advertisers to target TV ads.

Targeted TV ads, also known as addressable TV, have yet to go mainstream because they involve renegotiating carriage deals with programmers and distributors, said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research.

Targeted TV represents more than $100 billion in revenue by 2030 for companies that offer it, according to an April Credit Suisse report, which called it "a largely overlooked benefit of the AT&T/Time Warner transaction." The ads can also be sold at triple the price of regular ads.





'HEALTHY COMPETITION'

"The Google/Facebook duopoly has such a strong hold on the market, I think it's important that there is healthy competition and that we aren't just forced to invest in two places," said Tim Villanueva, head of media strategy for Fetch, an ad agency focused on mobile, whose clients include eBay and Lululemon. He said he was interested in using the new platform.

U.S. advertisers are expected to spend $60.9 billion this year on Facebook and Google, an 86 percent increase from the $32.8 billion they spent three years ago, according to research firm eMarketer.

Meanwhile advertisers' spending on TV ads is expected to be $69.9 billion, a 1.45 percent increase from three years ago.

The trial has seen a parade of witnesses testifying about how the merger would affect them. Executives from smaller pay TV companies talked about how important it was to have access to Time Warner's movies and television shows.

Both the Justice Department and AT&T called on economists to defend their points of view.

Among them were Carl Shapiro of the University of California at Berkeley, who said the $84.5 billion deal would cost American consumers some $286 annually in higher prices, while Dennis Carlton, from the University of Chicago, said it would mean a benefit of 52 cents per month to every pay TV subscriber.

The trial, which began in mid-March in U.S. District Court in Washington, is expected to wrap up this month.





(Reporting by Diane Bartz; Additional reporting by Jessica Toonkel; Editing by Bernadette Baum)



NEW YORK (AP) -- Starbucks, moving swiftly to confront a racially charged uproar over the arrest of two black men at one of its stores in Philadelphia, plans to close more than 8,000 U.S. stores for several hours next month to conduct racial-bias training for nearly 175,000 workers.

The announcement Tuesday comes after the arrests sparked protests and calls for a boycott on social media. A video shows police talking with two black men seated at a table. After a few minutes, officers handcuff the men and lead them outside as other customers say they weren't doing anything wrong. Philadelphia-area media said the two were waiting for a friend.

Philadelphia police released a recording of the call from the Starbucks employee that led to the arrests. In the recording, a woman is heard saying, "Hi, I have two gentlemen in my cafe that are refusing to make a purchase or leave." She gives the address of the Starbucks store, and the entire call lasts less than 30 seconds. In the communications between police and dispatch that were also released, someone refers to "a group of males inside causing a disturbance," and additional officers are sent.

Starbucks, which was once ridiculed for urging its employees to write "Race Together" on coffee cups to start a national conversation on race relations, has found itself through the looking glass: under fire for its treatment of black people.

The company reacted from a high level: Starbucks CEO Kevin Johnson called the arrests "reprehensible" and said he wanted to apologize to the two men face-to-face. The company and a lawyer for the two men said they did meet, and Johnson delivered the apology. Starbucks also said the employee who called police no longer works at the store, but declined to give details.

Johnson also promised to revamp store management training to include "unconscious-bias" education. Starbucks said its U.S. company-owned stores and corporate offices will be closed on the afternoon of May 29 for the training, which will eventually be incorporated into the instruction process for all newly hired employees.

The episode highlights the risks large corporations run when they tie their brands so closely to social messaging. In 2015, then-CEO Howard Schultz shrugged off the "Race Together" fiasco as a well-intentioned mistake and pressed on with his public efforts to engage in the debate over race in America. Johnson was scrambling to keep the Philadelphia incident from shattering the message Schultz was going for: Starbucks is a corporation that stands for something beyond profit.

"The more your brand is trying to connect emotionally to people, the more hurt people feel when these kinds of things happen," said Jacinta Gauda, the head of the Gauda Group, a New York strategic communications firm affiliated with the Grayling network. "They are breaking a promise. That's what makes it hurt deeper."

Beyond racial relations, Starbucks has staked much of its brand on its dual promise of providing good customer service and treating its employees well, said John Gordon, a restaurant industry analyst with Pacific Management Consulting Group.

But in a multinational company with more than 28,000 stores worldwide, there has "to be a situation every day where some human being handles things wrong," Gordon said. "Even with a huge operations manual that lays out what to say and what to do, you can't cover everything."

Gordon called the decision to hold the May 29 training sessions "the most practical way to get word out to all employees, the same way at one time."

Starbucks has set its own high bar.

Last month, the company claimed it had achieved 100 percent pay equity across gender and race for all its U.S. employees and committed to doing the same for its overseas operations, an initiative publicly backed by equality activist Billie Jean King. The company also touts the diversity of its workforce, saying minorities comprise more than 40 percent of its employees in the U.S.

In 2016, Starbucks promised to invest in 15 "underserved" communities across the country, trying to counter an image of a company catering to a mostly white clientele. One of those stores opened in Ferguson, Missouri, the scene of 2014 protests following the police shooting of Michael Brown, one of several such killings that moved Schultz to launch the Race Together campaign.

Story ContinuesAs bearish as I’ve been on Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD), I can’t say I saw the recent decline in AMD stock coming. AMD stock dipped below $10 earlier this month, touching a 16-month low in the process.

That’s not what I predicted. I’d argued for most of the last year that I thought AMD stock would stay stuck. A trading range that mostly held between $11 and $13 seemed right — unless the company could show some significant improvement in its growth potential. Indeed, I wrote a month ago that “below $10, AMD stock gets more interesting.”

Just north of that level, Advanced Micro Devices stock does look more interesting. The drivers of the bull case, notably new product lines, still are on the way. AMD’s ability to better challenge industry giant Intel Corporation (NASDAQ:INTC) remains intact. There are long-term tailwinds behind the chip space as a whole, a key reason why the sector has seen a bull run, particularly since the election.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

The question is whether “interesting” is quite compelling enough. And there are real concerns facing AMD. Cryptocurrency mining weakness and reports of serious flaws have weighed AMD stock down so far. And I’m not quite ready to dismiss those concerns.

Still, the move back to $10 does make AMD’s multiple more attractive. Support generally has held around these levels, which could set up a bounce. I’m not 100% ready to jump on board with AMD stock — but more aggressive investors might be.

Bull Case for AMD Stock

One reason to buy AMD stock now is that it has been caught in a sector-wide downdraft. Indeed, chip stocks as a whole seem to have weakened. Whether it’s trade war fears or just valuation concerns, the iShares S&P NA Tec. Semi. Idx. Fd.(ETF) (NASDAQ:SOXX), better known as the “SOX,” is off 6% over the past month. AMD stock has fallen 12%, as has Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:MU). Even high-flyer Nvidia Corporation (NASDAQ:NVDA) has pulled back about 7%.

AMD, meanwhile, aside from a quick dip toward $9, has seen support hold around the $10 level — support which has held since December 2016. First-quarter earnings, due next month, could provide an upside catalyst, particularly with expectations likely rather low at the moment. More importantly, the long-term case here still holds.

After all, the company’s key new lines should drive growth in 2018 and beyond. Both Ryzen CPUs and EPYC data center chips should allow AMD to challenge Intel. For all the hype about cryptocurrency mining and its contribution to AMD revenue, the market hasn’t priced AMD stock as if those profits would continue forever. Advanced Micro Devices stock now is down over the period when mining demand ramped up. (Indeed, one would think the obvious trade on mining weakness would be to short NVDA, which has risen 138% over the past year, not sell AMD, which is down 22%.)

Meanwhile, AMD has responded to the report of vulnerabilities that hit its stock in March, and said fixes would be mostly based on firmware updates. So two of the drivers of the recent weakness that are specific to AMD seem relatively modest, at worst. The rest of the sell-off could be attributed to the market selling chip stocks — and tech stocks more broadly. If that’s the case, there’s a clear buying opportunity in AMD stock.

Is AMD Stock a Buy?

Forced to choose, I’d take the bull case at this point. AMD stock still has a heavy short interest, at almost 19%, and that’s a trade that looks far too risky at this point.

Still, there are reasons for caution. Technically, support has held, but Advanced Micro Devices also has a concerning 10-month pattern of higher highs and lower lows. Valuation, even at 19x 2019 consensus earnings per share, isn’t necessarily cheap. The chip stock space as a whole is notoriously cyclical. AMD still is heavily reliant on the PC, and long-term weakness in that industry is one reason I’m cautious on INTC as well.

AMD itself has targeted $0.75 in EPS in 2020. A 20x multiple to those earnings would value the stock at $15. Discounted back at 10%, that values AMD stock at the moment above $12. The question is whether a 20x multiple is merited — and whether AMD can hit those targets. If cryptocurrency mining weakness has some effect — and it likely will, given ASIC competition — the target is a concern. Given PC exposure and the cyclical nature of the space, a 20x multiple might be too high. (Note that Intel is trading at under 14x.)Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE:CMG) still has its share of doubters on Wall Street. But an analyst revision is making Chipotle stock look tastier off and on the price chart and ripe for a bullish order from the options menu in front of next week’s earnings event.

Let me explain.

By some measures, it’s been a good year for Chipotle stock. Shares are up nearly 12.50% and more than 15x the minuscule 0.80% increase this year in the S&P 500. That of course fails to appreciate the past couple years and is a stark contrast to 2018’s shifting fortunes for a bull just coming of age in CMG versus one looking ready for slaughter.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Helping Chipotle along with 2018’s strong performance, Tuesday saw RBC Capital Markets raise its price target on CMG shares from a below-market $310 to a mostly at-the-money $340. Bulls and bears reacted by sending Chipotle stock up 2.45% to $334.61.

Behind the ‘mild’ price revision, the firm sees the recently tapped Chipotle CEO as a driver for more aggressive marketing, innovation and long-term earnings growth.

In truth, the note comes across on the bland side to this strategist. But with no mention of popular bearish talking points such as weak online customer reviews, ‘sour sides’ like avocado price wars or unsatisfying queso sauce and Chipotle stock maintaining an overwhelmingly bearish Street community; CMG is ready for contrarians to place a bullish order from the CMG options menu.

Chipotle Stock Daily Chart

How to Play an Earnings Breakout in Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. Stock More

After more than a couple false starts, shares of CMG look ready to move higher and begin a new and more appetizing price cycle for investors. Bottom-line or squiggly lines in this case, Tuesday’s bullish daily special in Chipotle stock has the technical backing of a fairly drawn out and supportive bottoming pattern.

The price formation is known as an inverse triangle or broadening pattern and has loosely taken shape around Chipotle’s 62% retracement level stemming from its all-time-low in 2008 to CMG’s all-time-high in 2015. Overall, the base building in CMG over the last several months is viewed as constructive, albeit a volatile and stomach-churning affair at times as well.

Now and with shares of CMG moving firmly above the 200-day simple moving average for a second time in 2018 and removed from potential angular pattern resistance near $365; the time looks right to nibble on Chipotle stock in front of next week’s earnings and a catalyst for a fresh higher-high pattern and an emerging bull market.





Chipotle Stock Bullish Strategy

For like-minded bullish traders wanting to position through next week’s earnings event with a short-term play, approaching Chipotle stock with an out-of-the-money bull call spread makes sense. Verticals like this go a long ways towards minimizing and containing risk in the event we’re wrong.

The downside for this CMG strategy is both the timing and direction needed to cooperate or the debit risks being lost in full. If readers are comfortable with this possibility, one favored combination is the April 27 $352.50 / $365 call spread. With shares at $334.61, the spread is priced for $3.10 or less than 1% of the risk associated with holding CMG stock.

The minimal exposure is a nice benefit as Chipotle stock does have a history of making large earnings-driven price moves. Thus, if we’re ‘long and wrong’, at least the risk is well-controlled versus owning shares or some other costlier options position. This type of spread is also easy to adjust or even take quick profits if there’s a bit of pre-earnings support in CMG stock.

Technically, this spread was chosen as it fits in well with our expectations. If new highs are in store for Chipotle, buying the $350 call is a well-placed bet to take advantage of that happening. At the same time, since we anticipate some resistance around $365 in the near-term, selling the higher strike and reducing the cost of the long call is not only reasonable, it’s smart business. And as the net transaction can capture as much as $9.40 or 300% if Chipotle stock manages to top our expectations and sizzle through $365; that’s a tasty spread, even if we leave something on the table.I hate to admit it, but First Solar, Inc. (NASDAQ:FSLR) is having a brilliant time in the markets. Year-to-date, FSLR stock isn’t that remarkable, up around 15%. However, over the trailing year, First Solar tore up the markets, returning shareholders a whopping 170% return.

Best of all, the company’s performance greatly outshines its competitors. Rival Canadian Solar Inc. (NASDAQ:CSIQ) offered a respectable 20% in the past year, but it’s nowhere near FSLR stock. SunPower Corporation (NASDAQ:SPWR) put up very similar numbers in the same time frame, or 22%.

Unfortunately, in hindsight, I unnecessarily cautioned against buying First Solar shares. On Sep. 8 of last year, I stated that the company was excessively hyped but without fundamental justification. Since then, FSLR stock has rocketed 55%, leaving me with egg on my face.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

So what exactly happened? Late October, First Solar released its third quarter 2017 results, which produced a massive 131% earnings surprise. That mooned FSLR, as you might imagine. Another solid outing in Q4 led to a significant rally this year.

I concede that you can’t argue with the results. Try as I might, the markets have their own logic, and they are always right. Having said that, I firmly believe that most of the run-up is due to investor speculation; if you drill down into the details, the FSLR rally has vulnerabilities.

Here are three reasons why I’m still cautious on First Solar despite its recent performance.

First Solar or Any Solar Is Simply Inefficient

One of the biggest reasons why I remain bearish on FSLR stock is solar energy’s inefficiency. If you’re looking to power a pocket calculator, fine. But if you want to run an air conditioner, even a small one will require 7.5 amps on a 120V circuit. Bump that up to a whopping 30 amps on a dedicated 240V circuit.

I think most people have a grave misunderstanding when it comes to renewable energy. To power a home daily for mundane purposes, perhaps you can get away with bolting a few, ugly solar panels on your roof. But for something more extensive like the AC, forget it! You’d probably run out of roof before you can adequately run your cooling device.

Right now, renewable energy companies like First Solar are enjoying the trendiness of their industry. But when it comes down to brass tacks, the upfront costs are prohibitive. True, you can eventually break even, but you have to remember that solar panels don’t last indefinitely. Also, the time to get break even can extend unexpectedly if you use the AC or any high-amp device.

One more point on this topic: If renewable energy is supposedly so amazing, how come nations that utilize it don’t have cheaper utility bills?

FSLR Stock Faces Old-Tech Risks

Another possible reason why FSLR stock has performed remarkably well over the past few months is its “new tech” cred. Companies like Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) and Alphabet Inc (NASDAQ:GOOG, NASDAQ:GOOGL) are where they are because they embrace innovation. Adapt or die, as they say.





But a key irony is that First Solar’s biggest competition may not be other innovators, but industries older than the sands of time. For instance, people love the Prius from Toyota Motor Corp (ADR) (NYSE:TM). It’s an environment saver, producing fewer carbon footprints than traditional vehicles, whatever that means.

It’s all fun and games until you have to replace the Prius’ battery. You then balk at the $2,300 to $2,600 price range, and that’s just the unit cost. Ultimately, once an electric vehicle’s battery goes, it may be better just to buy another car. So much for being green and not wasteful.

This brings me back to FSLR. It might produce the next big thing in renewable energy. But once the hidden costs of renewables become further known, traditional energy sources become more attractive. Because let’s face it: Who wants to have ugly, expensive solar roof panels if standard energy costs decline for whatever reason?

First Solar’s Increasingly Unattractive Financials

Several years ago, you might make a case for FSLR stock based on its potential. Indeed, for fiscal year 2014, things were rolling in the right direction: strong revenue growth, exceptionally high net margins relative to the industry, and positive earnings trend.At first glance, Pfizer Inc. (NYSE:PFE) appears a worthwhile contrarian trade. We’re talking about one of the world’s biggest drug-makers, so any downturn is likely a discounted opportunity. Additionally, the overall markets have been soft, allowing shrewd investors to pick up PFE stock at a more attractive valuation.

Since closing at $38.66 near January-end, PFE has dropped 6%. On a year-to-date basis, shares have gone nowhere, moving up less than 1%. With the company’s flagship drugs like Prevnar and Viagra losing patent exclusivity, management faces significant headwinds. As a result, many analysts are questioning whether Pfizer stock, at its present cost, is worth the risk.

Our own Tom Taulli recognizes the steep challenges that lay ahead. Nevertheless, he’s cautiously optimistic on PFE stock, primarily because of its growth story. Granted, over the past few years, revenues have disappointed shareholders. But Taulli argues that the company invested substantially into its therapeutics pipeline. Moreover, it levers a respectable portfolio, including “Ibrance (a cancer drug), Prevnar 13 (a vaccine for pneumococcal) and Xeljanz (an immunology drug).”

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Certainly, PFE isn’t going down without a fight. Prior to Viagra losing its patent exclusivity late last December, the pharmaceutical giant developed its own generic version. I like the thinking here, as Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd (ADR) (NYSE:TEVA) and Mylan NV (NASDAQ:MYL) were on the prowl.

Taulli mentions other positives for Pfizer stock, including favorable tax treatment and a generous dividend yield. The former reason in particular has strong forward-looking implications, because PFE can use the extra funds to boost core investments.

But despite these positives, PFE stock hasn’t been a great trade. For example, the company lost Viagra exclusivity on Dec. 11 last year. Shares increased a mere 1.2%.

Moving forward, I’d still be very cautious about Pfizer stock.

PFE Stock Is All Potential, No Substance

There is a saying: talk is cheap. I’m sure that Pfizer’s executives are focused on growth. What else are they going to say, that they’re focused on sinking the company? The issue here is that we’re not seeing any evidence that their strategies will work favorably for PFE stock.

InvestorPlace contributor Will Healy points out that Pfizer posted surprisingly strong numbers in its most recent fourth-quarter earnings report. Healy writes:

The company tends to surprise on earnings. For fourth quarter 2017, Pfizer reported earnings of 62 cents per share, beating estimates by 6 cents per share. Revenue for the quarter came in at over $13.7 billion, $20 million higher than expected. EPS improved from the 47 cents per share number reported in 4Q 2016.

However, he rightfully mentioned that “revenues only increased by 0.5% year-over-year,” and that’s my problem with Pfizer stock. It’s not just a one-off pedestrian performance, but affirms a long string of disappointing results.

Going back to Q1 2011, we have only seen seven quarters where revenues increased on a year-over-year basis. If you’re doing the math, that’s seven quarters against 28 total, a lowly 25%. Furthermore, when sales are increasing, the growth averages only 7.3%. That’s just not going to cut it when 75% of the time, revenue growth is negative.

PFE stock, revenue growth More

True, the last two quarters produced YOY gains. Unfortunately, neither in Q3 nor in Q4 was that gain higher than 1%. Plus, the last four quarters’ sales growth averaged -0.54%.

I’m not trying to be a jerk here, but these are not the metrics the company needs. Unless the company has a miracle product in the pipeline, PFE stock faces significant downside risk.

Too Many Obstacles Ahead for Pfizer Stock

The follow-up question is what PFE has in its pipeline. Unfortunately, Healy states that nothing special exists in their product portfolio. And without that excitement, it’s hard to see analysts supporting Pfizer stock at current valuations.Signs of U.S. dollar and Euro are seen at a currency exchange office in Istanbul, Turkey, November 15, 2017. REUTERS/Murad Sezer/File Photo

LONDON (Reuters) - Iran will start reporting foreign currency amounts in euros rather than U.S. dollars, state media said on Wednesday as part of the country's effort to reduce its reliance on the U.S. currency due to political tension with Washington.

The new policy could encourage government bodies and firms linked to the state to increase their use of the euro at the expense of the dollar.

Central bank governor Valiollah Seif said last week that Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had welcomed his suggestion of replacing the dollar with the euro in foreign trade, as the "dollar has no place in our transactions today".

Tehran has been trying for years to move away from the dollar, although much of the country's international trade is still conducted in dollars and ordinary Iranians use them for travel and savings.

U.S. President Donald Trump has threatened to exit a 2015 nuclear deal Iran made with world powers unless it is revised. U.S. sanctions will resume unless Trump issues new "waivers" to suspend them on May 12.

Bank transactions involving the dollar are already difficult for Iran because legal risks make U.S. banks unwilling to do business with Tehran. Foreign firms can be exposed to sanctions if they do Iranian deals in dollars, even if the operations involve non-U.S. branches.

As a result, France will start offering euro-denominated credits to Iranian buyers of its goods later this year to keep its trade out of reach of U.S. sanctions, the head of state-owned French investment bank Bpifrance said in February.

The threat of U.S. sanctions has destabilised Iran's foreign exchange market in recent months.

The rial lost close to half its value on the free market between last September and last week, sinking to a record low of about 60,000 against the dollar before authorities set a fixed rate of 42,000 and warned Iranians they would face penalties for using other rates.

Khamenei on Wednesday blamed foreign enemies for the "recent issues in the currency market" and asked Iran's intelligence services to defuse the plots against the Islamic Republic.

Police spokesman Saeed Montazer al-Mahdi was also quoted by ISNA saying that 39 currency exchangers have been arrested "for disrupting the market" and 80 unlicensed currency exchange shops have been shut down in recent days.





(Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Editing by Andrew Torchia and Matthew Mpoke Bigg)A briefcase filled with Iranian rial banknotes sits on display at a currency exchange market on Ferdowsi street in Tehran, Iran, on Saturday, Jan. 6, 2018. A wave of bad loans from unregulated lenders has rocked the banking sector and oil prices have averaged less than $60 a barrel for the past three years, draining Iran of a key source of revenue. Photographer: Ali Mohammadi/Bloomberg

Foreign intelligence services have played a role in fueling Iran’s currency crisis in an effort to destabilize the economy, according to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.

Enemies of Iran are waging a war against the country, Tasnim news agency quoted him as saying. He didn’t refer to any country in particular.

“When we look carefully at recent issues in the currency market, the footprints of foreign intelligence is evident,” Khamenei was cited as saying in a Wednesday meeting with officials of the Ministry of Intelligence.

Iran unified its exchange rates for the rial last week as part of urgent measures to contain a crisis that saw the currency slump to series of record lows against the U.S. dollar in unregulated trading. The rial has weakened as the Trump administration nears a May 12 deadline to stay in or withdraw from the 2015 nuclear deal that removed most sanctions on Iran’s economy, and amid political feuding at home.

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump Confirms CIA Chief Pompeo Met North Korea’s Kim Last Week

Last week, central bank governor Valiollah Seif accused regional foes Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates of playing a role in the currency drop.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Khamenei Sees `Foreign Footprints' in Iran's Currency Chaos on bloombergpolitics.comLONDON (Reuters) - Iran banned government bodies on Wednesday from using the popular Telegram instant messaging app as Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's office said his account would shut down to protect national security, Iranian media reported.

ISNA news agency did not give a reason for the government ban on the service which lets people send encrypted messages and has an estimated 40 million users in the Islamic Republic.

The order came days after Russia - Iran's ally in the Syrian war - started blocking the app in its territory following the company's repeated refusal to give Russian state security services access to users' secret messages.

Iran's government banned "all state bodies from using the foreign messaging app," according to ISNA.

Khamenei stopped using Telegram on Wednesday "in line with safeguarding national interests and removing the monopoly of the Telegram messaging app," state media reported.

The Supreme Leader has a strong presence on social media, even on Twitter and Facebook that are blocked in Iran. His office updates the accounts with photos and his latest speeches.

Telegram, set up by a Russian entrepreneur and ranked the world's ninth most popular mobile messaging app, has been widely used by Iranian state media, politicians and companies.

A judicial official said this week that Telegram and other foreign messaging services could only operate in Iran if they got permission from the government and saved users' data inside the country.

Iran temporarily blocked the service in January as security forces sought to contain anti-government protests in more than 80 cities.

Many Iranians kept accessing Telegram then, using virtual private networks (VPNs) and other tools to bypass government filtering.

The service is widely used in countries across the Middle East and the former Soviet Union.





(Reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin; Editing by Andrew Heavens)VMware shares soared on Monday on word that Michael Dell is ready to abandon his reverse merger plan between VMware and Dell Technologies.

Shareholders were in open revolt, and Wall Street analysts were openly negative about the prospect of the deal.

Employees weren't thrilled either, and neither were VMware's hardware partners that compete with Dell, according to reports.

The deal would have been huge, and would have given Dell a non-traditional path to going public again.

VMware shareholders are happy, and the stock is up about 7% over the close of Friday, thanks to rumors that Michael Dell is growing cold on the idea of a reverse merger — a move that would have made Dell a publicly-traded company again, after it went private in 2013 after a $24 billion buyout.

Dell is listening to angry VMware investors and bearish Wall Street analysts who have been saying that this merger is bad for VMware and only good for Dell, multiple news outlets reported on Monday.

For instance, one of VMware largest investors, Jericho Capital Asset Management, was pressuring the VMware board to end discussions, Bloomberg reported last month.

And T. Rowe Price Group, the largest independent shareholder of VMware, also opposed any such deal, it told Barron's last month.

"The proposed Dell-VMW reverse merger has previously drawn public opposition by VMW shareholders, due to the slow-growth, legacy nature of Dell's core business as well as its heavy debt load," Credit Suisse's Brad Zelnick summarized in a research note on Monday.

On top of that, the merger could have crushed VMware's growth by making it impossible for it to maintain its strong partnerships with Dell's long-time hardware rivals, especially Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, CRN's Mark Haranas reported.

As we previously reported, we heard rumblings that employees inside VMware were not too happy about the idea, as well.

All told, the clear threat was that the reverse merger could lead to investor lawsuits, among other issues.

To recap what everyone was so upset about: Michael Dell's company Dell Technologies is currently VMware's largest shareholder. Dell was considering merging with VMware, essentially selling itself to the smaller company. Because VMware is already a publicly-traded company, it would mean Dell would basically go public without the need for an IPO.

That would also mean that VMware shareholders would suddenly be on the hook for all of Dell's $53 billion in debt (much of which it incurred by buying EMC), Zelnick points out, adding that VMware represents about 10% of Dell revenues but over half if its free cash flow. Under the current structure, where VMware remains an independent publicly traded company, Dell cannot lay its hands on that cash.

In fact, in 2016, EMC executives promised that after it merged with Dell, the combined company wouldn't raid VMware's cash and wouldn't harm its long-term ability to do business with its competitors.

VMware declined to comment.

NOW WATCH: Dell's CMO says this is the biggest mistake marketers make

See Also:

SEE ALSO: The general manager of one of VMware's star business units has jumped to Google, stoking fears that more could follow

SEE ALSO: Oracle cancelled a big announcement at the last minute — here are some clues as to what it could be cooking upEnergy sector earnings season starts rolling later this week, and as always, the party will kick off with the so-called big three oilfield services providers: Schlumberger Ltd. , General Electric Co.'s Baker Hughes , and Halliburton Co. .

Schlumberger is a holding in Jim Cramer's Action Alerts PLUS.

While oilfield services stocks have been riding the energy stock outperformance wave of late, investors are mostly still sitting on the sidelines, according to Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. analysts.

That means first quarter earnings present a significant opportunity for management teams to potentially convince investors of the renewed merit for their stocks.

"We've been around long enough to know that markets never behave exactly the way we expect, so given the current sky-high apathy level regarding the OFS space, there are bound to be some positive egative surprises (Q1 results and/or Q2+ outlook commentary) which draw at least some folks off the sidelines," the firm wrote in a Wednesday, April 18, research note.

Schlumberger - Paal Kibsgaard

Part of that game plan requires managing analysts' expectations ahead of earnings. Of the big three, Schlumberger has seemed to do the best job of that so far.

"Masterful job by SLB of casting pall over market expectations for its Q1'18 results (we and Street now both down to 37c EPS) without actually precisely quantifying order of magnitude of transitory North America frac market headwinds (sand logistics, etc.)," the analysts wrote in a Wednesday note. "We've been to this (quarterly earnings) rodeo before with the global OFS bellwether, so we'll take the over on SLB's Q1 print, which suggests Street Q2 EPS (48c vs. our 46c) is probably in right ballpark."

Indeed, last month a number of analysts revised their earnings estimates for Schlumberger following management commentary on sand and logistics issues, including Seaport Global Securities LLC, which now expects earnings of 37 cents per share, as well. The shut down of a major railroad in the first quarter was causing shortages of sand noted by both Schlumberger and its competitor Halliburton, and with the two largest pumping companies in the US experiencing such significant shortages and delays, Seaport said it would not be surprised to see delays and disappointments in U.S. well completion rates and well production volumes in the near-term.

To be sure, as the largest oilfield services company in the world, Schlumberger's earnings are about more than just income and revenue numbers and North American sand issues. According to TPH, the market justifiably always looks to Schlumberger's international commentary as they have arguably the best international oil patch intelligence on the planet.

"But we're most curious to hear that the near-term transitory international earnings-recovery bridles (e.g., costs associated with asset reactivations) will be in rearview mirror come this summer," the firm wrote. "Regarding NAM onshore, SLB will never say, but we're looking for at least some qualitative color on the deployment pace for its recently acquired frac horsepower."

On Friday before the opening bell, Schlumberger is expected to report earnings of 37 cents per share on revenues of $7.8 billion, according to FactSet Research Systems Inc. Look for CEO Paal Kibsgaard to take the stage for a subsequent conference call in which the longtime CEO of the world's most dominant oilfield services provider should relay a cautiously optimistic message focusing on his company's best-in-class international presence.

Halliburton - Jeff Miller

For competitor Halliburton, discretion has been the key to managing market expectations this earnings season, but this is a fair stance to take, TPH said, given that we're coming off fourth quarter earnings in which oilfield services companies that disappointed were "were taken out back and put out of their misery."

In other words, the stock market was not kind to earnings misses in the oilfield services sector last go around, so no one can blame Halliburton for being wary of promising too much this quarter.

Halliburton's relatively new CEO Jeff Miller and company have done well to telegraph the services provider's sand logistics dilemmas, which may be why analysts surveyed by FactSet expect earnings of 41 cents per share on sales of $5.75 billion. If Halliburton is in line with consensus estimates, it would mark a step back from its EPS of 53 cents on $5.94 billion in revenue -- the best earnings and sales numbers the company has hit in more than two years.

TPH said in a Wednesday note it believes Halliburton's U.S. hydraulic fracturing stages completed have trended favorably during the first quarter, meaning March completions were better than February completions, which were better than January completions.

With that, the firm suggests Halliburton may be the boy who cried wolf for the first quarter, and therefore the company should trump even TPH's first-quarter earnings estimate of 42 cents per share, which is slightly above Wall Street's best guess.

"Heaven help us if we're wrong as our recent client conversations suggest that there are more folks in our camp than there are investors who believe this Q1 earnings tale uncomfortably ends with the sheep/boy (and HAL stock) getting eaten," TPH wrote. "Working in HAL's favor is that most investors with whom we speak these days are convinced that the U.S. hydraulic fracturing services market is already (cyclically) oversupplied. We disagree and are happy to walk folks through our U.S. frac supply/demand work which illuminates why we feel as such. In the meantime, we're sticking with our bullish HAL stance as we believe the stock will see $60/share before it sees $40."

Halliburton, which closed at $50.89 per share Tuesday, reports earnings Monday ahead of the opening bell.

Baker Hughes - Lorenzo Simonelli

Almost a year after Baker Hughes linked up with General Electric's oil and gas unit, the company finally seems to have gotten the proper footing organizationally, operationally and financially, according to analysts.

That may be why the company's stock has taken off over the past six weeks, climbing almost 29% from $26.40 a share at the end of February to over $34 a share Wednesday.

But TPH is uncertain over what other catalysts approach the stock in the near term. Analysts surveyed by FactSet are calling for earnings of 6 cents per share for Baker Hughes, and TPH analysts think somewhere between that mark and their own 9-cents-per-share expectation would have a negligible effect on the stock.

But one real potential needle mover, according to the firm, would be for a marked improvement in Baker Hughes' free cash flow, given the company reported a deficit in that category during its fiscal 2017.

"We've confidence BHGE will deliver on this in FY'18...bonus would be if positive FCF already started flowing in Q1. We got too cute when BHGE stock was in high-$20s (couple weeks ago), so we'll tactically pick our spots on this one this spring/summer."

Wall Street's earnings expectations of 6 cents per share are well below the 15 cents per share Baker Hughes produced in the fourth quarter, as is the $5.43 billion in revenue expected this quarter compared to the $5.76 billion in the past frame.

Similar to its majority shareholder General Electric, Baker Hughes reports earnings Friday morning before markets open. Expect Baker Hughes CEO Lorenzo Simonelli, who took the helm at the newly combined company after serving atop GE's oil and gas unit since 2013, to attempt to assure investors and analysts that the integration period is in the rear-view and his company is ready to start regaining market share after years of losing ground.

Of course, if you're looking for just one of these industry titans to add to your portfolio, however, Tudor, Pickering, Holt suggests leaning toward Halliburton, as the negative sentiment regarding U.S. hydraulic fracturing market supply and demand fundamentals is at a "fever pitch," and Halliburton is the most North American-levered player of the three.

EXCLUSIVE OFFER: See inside Jim Cramer’s multi-million dollar charitable trust portfolio to see the stocks he thinks could be potentially HUGE winners. Click here to see his holdings for FREE.Peris Kimeli and Betsy Cheruyot were students at Kenyatta University thinking about launching a business when they applied for their first loans from the mobile lending company, Tala.

Hoping to get a clothing business off the ground and make some money to live on while going to school, the two young Kenyans downloaded the Tala mobile app, and within minutes received loans totaling about $15.

"Between us and poverty, we had about 200 shillings," Kimeli said of her early days starting their business. "We were like, what are we going to eat? Our parents said, 'No. We're not going to send money... You go figure it out' So we went and we did that."

Kimeli and Cheruyot took that $15 loan and went to Nairobi's famous secondhand market, Gikomba, where they bought 15 dresses at 100 shillings each and resold them in dorms and hostels for 200 shillings.

“Two remained, but we had no problem -- since we could keep them, we could wear them. By the end of the month, we had 7000 [shillings]," Kimeli said. "We borrowed again -- this time we borrowed 3000 [shillings] -- we went out and bought some more dresses, and that’s how we’ve been.”

Peris Kimeli and Betsy Cheruyot in Nairobi. Photo courtesy of Tala

Similar stories are playing out in cities across the world -- in countries like India, Mexico, the Philippines and Tanzania -- all because of Tala, a young, Santa Monica, Calif.-based, financial services startup.

Now in its fourth year, Tala has already distributed around $300 million in loans to 1.3 million borrowers like Kimeli. The company plans to continue expanding its geographical reach and range of financial services, thanks in part to $65 million in new financing from billionaire backed investment funds like Steve Case's Revolution Growth fund.

"We see Tala as a company building the future of finance. They have quickly become one of the leading mobile-first lenders in emerging markets where well over 3 billion consumers do not have access to traditional banks," says Case.

Shivani Siroya, the founder and chief executive officer at Tala, knows just how important -- and transformational -- outside investment can be for individuals in emerging markets.

Siroya was introduced to the power of financial independence working with the United Nations Population Fund.

"I ended up interviewing 3500 people, in person, across nine different countries," Siroya says. "What I did was go to their homes with them. Walk with them to work and sit there in the back of their stores and tally how many customers came in and how many products they sold. How much money goes under the mattress and how much oney goes to allowances... These individuals are hard-working and they are credit worthy, but you couldn't lend to them because they couldn't be documented."

Siroya launched Tala in March 2014 to create a mechanism for providing credit scores to financial institutions so that these undocumented women could get the loans they needed to become financially independent and entrepreneurial, she says. What Tala's founder quickly realized was that the easiest way to create credit scores that other financial institutions would recognize would be for Tala to start issuing loans itself.

The app -- available for download on Android devices -- works by collecting data on texts and calls, merchant transactions, overall app usage, and personal identifiers on a mobile phone to create an instantaneous profile of its potential borrowers. Customers simply download the app, apply for a loan and receive a decision in seconds. Most Tala borrowers, actually receive their credit in less than 10 minutes.

Story Continues"Retire Inspired" author Chris Hogan on a planning for retirement and a new survey on the top small cities to start a small business.Tesla could be 'too big to fail' like GM, Chrysler were during crisis, Morgan Stanley saysThe Trump administration notified Russia’s U.S. embassy in Washington Sunday that it has no plans to impose any further sanctions soon, according to a Foreign Ministry official.

Conflicting signals from Washington over its plans have sent markets gyrating in recent days. When official Russian news agencies reported the U.S. notification Wednesday, the ruble flipped from being the worst performing emerging-market currency to the best in the first hour of trading in Moscow. Ten-year ruble debt erased declines, climbing for a third day before the Finance Ministry plans to sell bonds after axing an auction last week for the first time since 2015.

The latest back-and-forth began Sunday, when U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley, said the Treasury would announce new sanctions soon targeting Russian companies linked to Syria’s chemical weapons program. The following day, the Washington Post reported that President Donald Trump halted the plan.

More from Bloomberg.com: CIA Chief Pompeo Met Kim to Lay Ground for Trump Summit

The Foreign Ministry official spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. The official wouldn’t specify who on the U.S. side had given the notification.

Tuesday, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow told reporters that “additional sanctions are under consideration” though he said Haley had “got ahead of the curve” by discussing them publicly.

The U.S. imposed sanctions on dozens of Russian tycoons and companies earlier this month, the most punitive measures since it first slapped economic penalties on Russia four years ago over the Ukrainian conflict. One of Russia’s most powerful businessmen, billionaire Oleg Deripaska, was hit hardest and shares of his aluminum giant Rusal have plunged about 70 percent in Hong Kong since the U.S. basically banned the company from the dollar economy.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read U.S. Told Russian Embassy No New Sanctions Due Soon, Russia Says on bloombergpolitics.comSalil Parekh, chief executive officer of Infosys Ltd, speaks during an interview in Bengaluru, India, on Tuesday, April 17th, 2018.

Salil Parekh didn’t get much time to settle in after taking over the helm of Infosys Ltd.

Since becoming chief executive officer in January, the 53-year-old has crisscrossed three continents to meet with customers and employees to get his hands around the challenges facing India’s iconic tech-services giant. He talked with 48 clients in his first three months -- and he’s determined to see every single one face to face in the next two quarters.

He’s already making tough decisions. He says Infosys has to sacrifice profit margins now by investing in advanced technology and skills in order to capture the opportunities of the ahead. That includes pumping more money into technologies such as the Internet of Things, retraining employees, localizing its workforce in the U.S. and building up the sales staff.

More from Bloomberg.com: Billionaire Banking Heir Matthew Mellon Dies at 54

“To build the future Infosys, we have to make those investments now,” says Parekh, perched on a couch in the office he clearly hasn’t used much. On his sparse desk are three photos of his family, a laptop and small statue of the elephant-head Ganesha, the god of new beginnings. “If we don’t do that now, the real concern is that we won’t be relevant to our clients in the future.”

It’s a message that may unsettle investors. On Monday, Infosys shares tumbled after the IT services giant said it expected operating margins to be 22 percent to 24 percent, lower than the previous year’s. The stock is trading at about the same level it did two years ago.

More from Bloomberg.com: Model 3 Production Line Skids to a Halt for Tesla

Parekh contends Infosys has a rare combination of skills and experience that will benefit the company in the years ahead. It’s been working with customers for decades and can use that understanding to help them navigate shifting technology trends, like cloud computing and artificial intelligence.

Infosys now reaps $2.8 billion in revenue from such digital services. But the potential market is $200 billion.

“We are best positioned to help clients navigate their journey into the future and take them to the next phase,” says Parekh. “Our clients are pushing us because they know we have the capabilities.”

Parekh may also cut some big acquisitions, like he did in his previous job. He has already met with the M&A team and asked them to draw up a short list of possible targets that could help buttress its digital capabilities. He’s also on the lookout for “opportunistic things that we can do that will help accelerate our digital pace.”

More from Bloomberg.com: Judge Slows U.S. Review of Trump Lawyer’s Records: Cohen Update

Read More: New ‘Stay Calm, Don’t Panic’ CEO Aims to Steady Troubled Infosys

In his first interview with international media, Parekh was engaging and a bit disarming. He explained he’s in the process of signing the lease on a house for his wife and youngest son to join him in Bangalore from Mumbai, even as he sends another son off to college in the U.S.

“You miss them, you don’t stop thinking about them,” he says, dressed in a blue shirt and striped tie, while his jacket is thrown over the back of a chair.

Through it all, his focus clearly is on urgent challenges at Infosys. Parekh is trying to get the company back to stable footing after the tumultuous tenure of his predecessor. Vishal Sikka arrived in 2014 as a well-respected executive from SAP SE, but quit in August after a clash with the company’s founders over strategy and compensation.

Parekh was a surprise choice as the new CEO. He was plucked from Capgemini SE over a field of internal candidates and former executives. He joined Capgemini in 2000 as part of an acquisition and then built its India business to the point it competed with Infosys and rival Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.

Parekh jokes about his management style -- “What are my options? I’ll pick one” -- but he quickly makes clear what he believes in is data.

“That’s the basis of all my decisions,” he says, explaining he spends so much time talking to staff and customers because he doesn’t like “second-hand” information. “I get into the details but I’m not a micro-manager.”

Infosys and TCS are pioneers in providing back-office support for the world’s largest corporations, but they’ve had to evolve to go beyond traditional low-margin, labor-intensive work. The country’s $167 billion IT services industry is investing in cloud computing and AI to jump-start growth, as clients from banking to retail turn to automation.Domestic rating agency Crisil, which is majority owned by multinational S&P, today reported a 14 per cent rise in net profit at Rs 82.21 crore for the three months to March over Rs 72.14 crore in the year-ago period. The company said its income from operations for the first quarter also rose by 4.6 per cent to Rs 420.59 crore. Managing director and chief executive officer Ashu Suyash attributed the better show, especially on lower income growth, "to improved margins owing to greater efficiencies and cost control," apart from leveraging technology which has begun to generate greater business traction. Through 2017, sharp focus on tech-enabled products to serve emerging needs of clients resultedChevy will soon let you pay for gas from inside your carVCG/Getty Images





Elon Musk reportedly sent Tesla employees a memo, pledging a big push towards productivity as it gets production of its Model 3 car back on track.

To that end, Musk apparently gave employees some of his personal productivity tricks — including a call for common sense, and his blessing to walk out of a meeting if it's not valuable.

Jalopnik got its hands on a letter from Elon Musk to his employees at Tesla Motors, in which he lays out a plan to get production of its Model 3 electric car back on track by embracing a 24/7 shift schedule, while also urging workers to keep pushing towards greater productivity.

To that end, Musk includes several of his own personal productivity tips.

For instance: "Walk out of a meeting or drop off a call as soon as it is obvious you aren’t adding value. It is not rude to leave, it is rude to make someone stay and waste their time," Musk writes.

Or: "In general, always pick common sense as your guide. If following a 'company rule' is obviously ridiculous in a particular situation, such that it would make for a great Dilbert cartoon, then the rule should change."

Indeed, it's a general theme in Musk's memo that employees should follow common sense, and that they shouldn't be afraid to circumvent the normal Tesla chain of command if that's what it takes to get the job done.

And Musk should know something about the topic: Musk is the CEO of both Tesla and SpaceX, while also leading the Boring Company, his tunnel-digging startup. Indeed, it came out earlier on Tuesday that Musk sleeps on an uncomfortable-looking couch in his office at Tesla just to reduce his downtime.

Read the full letter at Jalopnik here.

Tesla did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

NOW WATCH: Elon Musk's 'Boring Company' now prioritizes pedestrians over cars — here's how it would work

See Also:

SEE ALSO: This is the 'couch' Elon Musk sleeps on when he works late at Tesla, and the Internet is aghastTesla plans to operate its Fremont, Calif. factory all day, every day in a last-ditch effort to increase weekly production of its new Model 3 cars to 6,000 by the end of June, according to an internal email that CEO Elon Musk sent to employees on Tuesday.

To hit that target, Tesla is adding an extra shift at the factory.

The lengthy email, initially leaked to auto news site Jalopnik and verified by Fortune, confirms earlier reports that Tesla would first suspend production for several days to retool its factory for the increased production. The push follows production problems at the factory that have kept the company from meeting its manufacturing targets and worrying investors.

“Starting today at Giga and tomorrow at Fremont, we will be stopping for three to five days to do a comprehensive set of upgrades. This should set us up for Model 3 production of 3000 to 4000 per week next month,” Musk wrote in the email.

Tesla will complete another set of upgrades in late May that “should be enough to unlock production capacity of 6000 Model 3 vehicles per week by the end of June,” Musk continued in the email.

Tesla's production problems were first revealed in early October when the automaker reported it had produced just 260 of its new Model 3 electric cars in the third quarter and delivered only 220. Production improved to 2,425 Model 3s in the fourth quarter and 1,542 deliveries, but it was still below expectations.

Tesla reported earlier this month that it had fallen well short of its target to produce 2,500 Model 3s per week by the end of the first quarter. The company produced 2,020 Model 3 vehicles in a week at the end of the quarter, prompting Musk to admit that his reliance on automation had caused production bottlenecks.

The company produced 2,250 Model 3 vehicles as well as 2,000 Model S sedans and Model X SUVs last week, Musk said in the email.

The leaked email follows a string of problems at Tesla, including a report by Reveal that said the company had underreported worker injuries to regulators. It also got into a public fight with the National Transportation Safety Board over its investigation of a fatal Model X crash near San Francisco.

Musk’s email also covered a host of other topics, including comments about the growing number of contractors, some of which are “worse than a drunken sloth.” He also spoke about improving the quality of Tesla’s finished products--an area critics of the vehicles have targeted--and eliminating unnecessary meetings and costs.

See original article on Fortune.com

More from Fortune.comDespite reigning in its humongous debt load, China has managed to achieve a stupendous annual rate of growth.

Abbott Laboratories ABT is an Illinois-based company focused on bringing a diverse line of healthcare products to the market.

Abbott reports its diversified business in four segments – namely Established Pharmaceuticals Division (EPD), Medical Devices, Diagnostics and Nutrition. The company has reshaped its portfolio through strategic acquisitions/divestitures in recent times.

In Feb 2015, Abbott completed the sale of its branded generics pharmaceuticals business in developed markets. Realignment of the EPD division through acquisitions in Latin America and Russia, along with business divestitures in developed markets, has positioned the company well for the coming quarters.

Abbott Laboratories Price and EPS Surprise

Abbott Laboratories Price and EPS Surprise | Abbott Laboratories Quote

The company rides on its strong EPD business and strategic buyouts. In 2017, Abbott completed the acquisition of Alere, which is expected to enhance the company’s stance in healthcare. However, foreign currency headwinds raise major concerns for the company, since a considerable percentage of Abbott’s revenues come from outside the United States.

Abbott has an impressive track record as the company beat estimates in the last four trailing quarters with an average positive earnings surprise of 4.5%.

Currently, Abbott has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), but that could definitely change following the company’s first quarter 2018 earnings report which was just released. (You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here) We have highlighted some of the key stats from this just-revealed announcement below:

Earnings: Abbott’ first quarter 2018 adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of 59 cents outpaced the Zacks Consensus Estimate by a penny.

Revenues: Abbott posted first quarter worldwide revenues of $7.39 billion beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate for revenues by 1.8%.

Key Stats: Worldwide revenues increased by 6.9% on organic basis and by 16.7% on year-over-year basis. The revenues for Nutrition segment came in at $1.76 billion, up 7% year over year. Diagnostics segment reported sales worth $1.84 billion, up 58.7% on year-over-year basis. Established Pharmaceuticals revenues were $1.04 billion, up, 9.9% from the year-ago quarter. Medical Devices revenues came in at $2.74 billion, up 14.6% from the year-ago quarter.

Major Factors: The company expects full year earnings per share to be in the range of $2.80 to $2.90, reflecting 14% growth at midpoint. Several new products launched by the company have contributed to a strong growth. Furthermore, in January, Abbott announced U.S. FDA approval of for magnetic resonance (MR)-conditional labeling for its Quadra Assura and Quadra Assura MP devices.

Stock Price: Following the earnings release, share prices decreased by 1.4% during the pre-market trading session.

The Hottest Tech Mega-Trend of All



Last year, it generated $8 billion in global revenues. By 2020, it's predicted to blast through the roof to $47 billion. Famed investor Mark Cuban says it will produce "the world's first trillionaires," but that should still leave plenty of money for regular investors who make the right trades early.



See Zacks' 3 Best Stocks to Play This Trend >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Abbott Laboratories (ABT) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchDavid McNew/Getty Images





General Motors announced that Johan de Nysschen would depart as head of Cadillac.

Cadillac has struggled to directly compete with BMW, Audi, and Mercedes-Benz.

De Nysschen was replaced by Steve Carlisle, who had been running GM Canada and has been with the carmaker since 1982.

On Wednesday, General Motors announced that Johan de Nysschen would be replaced as head of the carmaker's Cadillac luxury division by Steve Carlisle, a relative unknown who started at GM in 1982 and had most recently been running Canadian operations.

"We appreciate Johan's efforts over the last four years in setting a stronger foundation for Cadillac," GM President Dan Ammann said in a statement.

"Looking forward, the world is changing rapidly, and, beginning with the launch of the new XT4, it is paramount that we capitalize immediately on the opportunities that arise from this rate of change." Ammann, who is GM's unofficial chief change officer, added. "This move will further accelerate our efforts in that regard."

De Nysschen came to Cadillac from Infiniti, and before that, Audi. He pushed Cadillac in a more overt, luxury brand direction, going so far as to relocate its sales and marketing operations to New York City to be close to the pulse of global luxury trends.

"There's no question Johan is a visionary automotive leader, but given GM's conservative culture he may have pushed things a step too far," Jessica Caldwell, an executive analyst at consumer auto site Edmunds.com, said in an email.

"The appointment of Carlisle, a GM-bred executive with a strong pedigree of global expertise, product planning acumen and history of building relationships with dealers speaks to the company’s desire for a more back-to-basics, comfortable approach," she added.

Cadillac XT5 More

Benjamin Zhang/Business Insider

Playing catch-up with the Germans

Caldwell expressed a view held by many in the industry: that De Nysschen's preoccupation with "chasing the German brands instead of embracing Cadillac’s unique heritage" undermined the brand's mojo.

"Over the last six months Cadillac has watched its cross-town rivals at Lincoln debut SUV after SUV to rave reviews, a script-flip few in the industry saw coming," she said.

In De Nysschen's defense, Cadillac launched a full-size sedan, the CT6, just as US sales were shifting to SUVs. A mid-size crossover, the XT5, arrived in 2016 and had sold briskly, but it launched with what some — including Business Insider — considered an engine that was underpowered for the segment. And Caddy's full-size Escalade continues to rule the segment, despite an upsurge in Lincoln Navigator sales.

But the clock was clearly ticking for de Nysschen, signaled by the departure of Uwe Ellinghaus as Caddy's marketing chief late last year. The South African-native De Nysschen was a cheerfully demanding executive, hardly a GM company man, easily identified due to his height, his clipped mustache, and his two-tone Breitling wristwatch.

De Nysschen also presided over the effective debut of Cadillac's Super Cruise hand-free highway self-driving feature, which now challenges Tesla's Autopilot as the best semi-autonomous consumer system available.

NOW WATCH: A Wall Street chief economist explains what could be the saving grace for mega-cap tech companies

See Also:

SEE ALSO: The Kia Stinger is one of the best cars we've driven all year — here are its coolest features

FOLLOW US: On Facebook for more car and transportation content!FILE PHOTO: William 'Bill' Ackman, CEO and Portfolio Manager of Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks during the Sohn Investment Conference in New York City, U.S., May 8, 2017. REUTERS/Brendan McDermid

(This version of the story corrects to clarify quote)

By Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Liana B. Baker

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Billionaire investor William Ackman, who lost a proxy contest at Automatic Data Processing <ADP.O> last year, said on Tuesday that he wants the human-resources technology company to succeed but said he might be back with a fight if ADP fails to perform.

Ackman, whose hedge fund Pershing Square Holdings last month reported cutting its holding in ADP to a 7.2 percent economic stake, praised the company for planning an analyst day in June and said he and other shareholders are looking forward to hearing how executives navigate a changed economic environment. ADP will benefit from recent tax cuts, and rising interest rates should help lift guidance, Ackman said at 13D Monitor's 2018 Active-Passive Investor Summit.

"We are rooting for the company," Ackman said, adding, other major ADP shareholders have told him "If we are disappointed we will say, We look forward to seeing you (Pershing Square) at the next annual meeting."

Ackman, who runs the $8 billion Pershing Square Capital Management, has had a tense relationship with ADP's chief executive officer, Carlos Rodriguez, who said that shareholders delivered an "ass-whipping" to the investor when he lost the proxy contest last November.

Since then, Ackman said relations have been more cordial, and he described a four-hour-long dinner he had with Rodriguez.

Ackman also heaped praise on the new CEO of Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc <CMG.N>, Brian Niccol, who started in March. There too, Ackman said he sees plenty of opportunity, noting the restaurant chain could offer breakfast, dessert, longer hours and drive-through options. Pershing owns 10.36 percent of Chipotle, according to Thomson Reuters data.

In a nod to diversity at boards, a topic that is gaining force in corporate America, Ackman said he may run an all-women slate one day and predicted it would win. At ADP he proposed three directors, including himself and one woman.

Ackman, who closed out the conference, caused some attendees to murmur about his declaration in January that he planned to keep a lower profile as he tries to resurrect his business.

After three years of back-to-back losses, Pershing Square is again in the red in early 2018, but Ackman sounded an optimistic note that a turnaround is possible for him and his portfolio.

"I hope we are on our way back to rebuilding our record," he said.

Shares of ADP closed up 0.8 percent at $117.89 on Tuesday, and Chipotle closed up 2.5 percent at $334.61.





(Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss and Liana B. Baker; Editing by Leslie Adler)Chevy will soon let you pay for gas from inside your carApr.18 -- Bloomberg’s Ed Hammond discusses criticisms by Bill Ackman towards Newell's dealing with Carl Icahn. He speaks with Alix Steel and David Westin on "Bloomberg Daybreak: Americas."Quarterbacks are coveted in the 2018 draft, but there’s no consensus on what order they’ll be drafted. The Giants hold the wild card with the No. 2 pick, and will influence the entire first round. And the Cowboys may be disappointed if they don’t move up to get Dez Bryant’s replacement.

Let’s get to prognosticating.

(Amber Matsumoto/Yahoo Sports)

1: Cleveland Browns — Wyoming QB Josh Allen

The Browns could go Sam Darnold here, but with Tyrod Taylor on the roster they have the luxury of going after the raw upside of Allen’s massive arm. It’s rare for top picks at quarterback to not start from Day 1 in the modern NFL, but Cleveland can afford to show patience if he’s their guy and they want to ease him in. Also, leave it to the Browns to pick a quarterback with accuracy issues at No. 1 overall.

Time is on Josh Allen’s side if he lands with the Browns. (AP)

2: New York Giants — USC QB Sam Darnold

The Giants are the biggest mystery in the draft and could go Bradley Chubb or even Saquon Barkley here. But it’s a rare opportunity to get what many consider the top quarterback on a draft board, and finding Eli Manning’s heir is a high priority.

3: New York Jets (from Colts) — UCLA QB Josh Rosen

The biggest knock on Rosen is that he’s too smart? OK. Sounds like a good problem. Rosen has the arm and physical talents to go with that big brain and could finally be the quarterback answer the Jets haven’t found despite decades of trying. Rosen has looked like a pro from the day he stepped on a field with the Bruins.

4: Cleveland Browns — N.C. State DE Bradley Chubb

Saquon Barkley is going to be sooo tempting here. But Cleveland added Carlos Hyde in free agency, and there are high-level running back talents to be found in later rounds, where there won’t be any game-changing pass rushers. Pairing Chubb with Myles Garrett on the defensive edges sounds like terror for AFC North quarterbacks for the next decade.

Story Continues

The Broncos would be remiss to pass on Saquon Barkley after releasing C.J Anderson. (AP)

5: Denver Broncos — Penn State RB Saquon Barkley

The Broncos need to protect new quarterback Case Keenum, making Notre Dame guard Quenton Nelson an option here. But they recently released C.J. Anderson, and a generational running back talent just dropped to them at No. 5. There’s no way they pass on Barkley.

6: Indianapolis Colts (from Jets) — Notre Dame guard Quenton Nelson

If Andrew Luck is ready to return to action after missing 2017 with a shoulder injury, protecting him should be the Colts’ top priority. It’s an area they’ve neglected since drafting Luck, and he’s paid the price. Nelson is the top offensive lineman in the draft and the responsible pick here.

7: Tampa Bay Buccaneers — Alabama DB Minkah Fitzpatrick

The Bucs desperately need secondary help, which is amplified by playing in the same division with Cam Newton, Drew Brees and Matt Ryan. Denzel Ward could get a look here as a potential lock-down corner, but the upside and versatility of Fitzpatrick, who has the strength to play inside and speed to cover outside may be too much to overlook here.

8: Chicago Bears – Virginia Tech LB Tremaine Edmunds

The Bears need help in a lot of places, so with no offensive weapons for young quarterback Mitchell Trubisky standing out at this spot, finding an anchor on defense will do just fine. A versatile linebacker who can rush off the edge or drop back in coverage, Edmunds looks like a three-down monster in the NFL. And at 19 years old, he fits right in with a rebuilding team.

9: San Francisco 49ers — Georgia LB Roquan Smith

With the domestic violence legal troubles surrounding last year’s first-round pick Reuben Foster, linebacker has shifted from a position of need to potentially one of desperation for the 49ers. Smith, a rangy, athletic middle linebacker would be ready to start from Day 1 and be a welcome addition to a 49ers defense in need of an upgrade against the run.

10: Oakland Raiders — Ohio State CB Denzel Ward

The Raiders have worked to upgrade their secondary in free agency, but still don’t have a clear starting cornerback to play opposite of 2017 first-round pick Gareon Conley. Insert Ward, his former Buckeyes teammate, and Oakland has a corner with speed and a nose for the ball to be a potential shutdown player in the NFL.

The upside of Baker Mayfield may be too much for the Dolphins to pass up. (AP)

11: Miami Dolphins — Oklahoma QB Baker Mayfield

Miami has a capable quarterback in Ryan Tannehill, but has also suffered decades of irrelevance while watching the AFC East become the New England Patriots’ playground. Mayfield’s upside and a chance to make a bold move for the Heisman Trophy winner may prove too tempting to pass up if he drops outside of the top 10.

12: Buffalo Bills (from Bengals) — Louisville QB Lamar Jackson

The Bills will surely try to move up if they believe they can jump a team trying to grab one of the alleged top four quarterbacks in the draft. If they can’t make that move, Jackson’s the fallback here, and one with a ton of upside. His speed and athleticism are known commodities, while many believe his accuracy issues are overstated.

13: Washington Redskins — Washington DT Vita Vea

Washington’s interior line has been a welcome sight for opposing running backs for years, most notably last season when the team gave up a league-worst 134.1 yards per game on the ground. Insert Vea, an athletic, 340-pound gap filler with the ability to pressure the quarterback, and a lot of Washington’s woes are addressed.

14: Green Bay Packers — FSU S Derwin James

The Packers could address receiver, pass rush or cornerback here, but the value of a potential game-changing safety would likely be too much to pass up if James falls this far. A big hitter who can cover and blitz, James has the upside of a true difference-maker for a defense.

15: Arizona Cardinals — Alabama WR Calvin Ridley

Sam Bradford doesn’t seem durable enough to be the long-term answer in Arizona, but with the top tier of quarterbacks gone, the Cardinals are likely to give him a test-run in 2018. If so, finding a complement and eventual heir to Larry Fitzgerald would be a wise choice. Ridley has the hands and athleticism to be a playmaker in the NFL.

16: Baltimore Ravens — Maryland WR D.J. Moore

The Ravens need help at receiver and tight end and would be wise to start looking past overpaid, underperforming future salary-cap casualty Joe Flacco. The top quarterbacks are gone, so Moore, a fast receiver with good size and solid hands makes the most sense if the Ravens don’t end up trading down.

17: Los Angeles Chargers — Alabama DT Da’Ron Payne

The Chargers need help on the defensive interior and at right tackle and could go either way. Payne, a good value here, is an athletic run-clogger who would shore up a weak spot on the Chargers defense while Joey Bosa and Melvin Ingram continue to develop into an elite pass-rushing duo.

18: Seattle Seahawks — Iowa CB Josh Jackson

Richard Sherman’s departure makes cornerback an obvious need, and Jackson is a good fit here. A 6-foot-1 ballhawk, Jackson doesn’t have elite speed, but has the size and outstanding playmaking abilities to step in as a starter from Day 1.

The Cowboys may look to SMU wide receiver Courtland Sutton to fill Dez Bryant’s void. (AP)

19: Dallas Cowboys — Southern Methodist WR Courtland Sutton

The departure of Dez Bryant has made receiver a red-alert priority in Dallas. The Cowboys can’t leave third-year quarterback Dak Prescott with his current receiving corps. At 6-3, 218 pounds, Sutton is a big, strong target with the ability to haul in contested balls. He doesn’t have great speed or separation, which limits his upside.

20: Detroit Lions — UT San Antonio DE Marcus Davenport

The Lions desperately need pass-rush help, and Davenport is a raw, strong, athletic, 260-pound wrecking ball who could fall this far because his game is not as polished as some players listed higher. If he develops, he could end up being a steal.

21: Cincinnati Bengals (from Bills) – Iowa C James Daniels

The Bengals lost Russell Bodine in free agency and find themselves looking at the best center in the draft in Daniels after trading down. Daniels should step in as an immediate starter, joining left tackle Cordy Glenn, who arrived via the trade from Buffalo, on a vastly improved offensive line.

22: Buffalo Bills (from Chiefs) — Boise St. ILB Leighton Vander Esch

The Bills desperately need help stopping the run, and Vander Esch looks like the kind of player who can step in immediately to anchor the middle of a defense. A strong athletic tackler, Vander Esch has the coveted versatility to attack the run while being able to rush the passer or drop back in coverage.

23: New England Patriots (from Rams) — UCF CB Mike Hughes

Nick Foles exposed the void left in the Patriots’ secondary by departed cornerback Malcolm Butler in the Super Bowl. Hughes is an upside pick without a lot of film after one year as a starter at UCF (after transferring from UNC). But his aggression for the ball and physicality with receivers makes him an intriguing prospect who could develop behind 30-year-old offseason acquisition Jason McCourty.

24: Carolina Panthers – Georgia G Isaiah Wynn

It’s criminal how much the Panthers have allowed Cam Newton to be hit. Improving protection for the franchise has been a need for years. Wynn demonstrated the finesse and skills needed to play tackle at Georgia, but has the size of an NFL guard and should be an immediate upgrade in pass protection in Charlotte.

25: Tennessee Titans — Alabama ILB Rashaan Evans

The Titans lost their second-leading tackler last year with the departure of Avery Williamson to the Jets. They would be thrilled to take Evans as his replacement here. Like so many other Nick Saban linebackers, Evans has the range and speed to play all over the field and would be a starter from Day 1 in Nashville.

26: Atlanta Falcons — Florida DT Taven Bryan

The Falcons need to replace Dontari Poe. While Bryan isn’t the 345-pound mass of a man that Poe is, he is a 290-pound athlete who can attack backfields with his quickness.

27: New Orleans Saints — South Dakota St. TE Dallas Goedert

Coby Fleener has been a disappointment, and about the only thing missing on a loaded Saints offense is a tight end target Drew Brees can depend on in close quarters. Goedert may be a bit of a reach here, but he’s the type of big (6-5, 255 pounds) athletic pass-catcher that Brees can make the most of.

If the Steelers don’t get the linebacker they covet, Stanford safety Justin Reid would be a good consolation pick. (AP)

28: Pittsburgh Steelers — Stanford FS Justin Reid

The Steelers would love nothing more for Vander Esch or Evans to drop here to fill the void left by injured linebacker Ryan Shazier. But that’s not the case, and Reid fills another hole left by the departure of Mike Mitchell. A burner with football smarts to match his Stanford pedigree, Reid could step in as a playmaker in the secondary from Day 1.

29: Jacksonville Jaguars – Texas A&M WR Christian Kirk

The Jaguars perplexingly seem content with quarterback Blake Bortles, the weakest spot on a championship contender, so replacing the departed Allen Robinson with another weapon seems the top priority in Jacksonville. Kirk projects as a slot receiver and would give Bortles a needed underneath target.

30: Minnesota Vikings — UTEP G Will Hernandez

The Vikings don’t have a lot of needs, but the retirement of Joe Berger has left a hole in the offensive line. A strong lineman who excels in run and pass protection, Hernandez projects as a Day 1 starter to protect Kirk Cousins and create holes for Dalvin Cook.

31: New England Patriots — UCLA OT Kolton Miller

The Patriots have not found a replacement for departed left tackle Nate Solder, and Miller looks like the best option here. Scouts appear to be mixed on whether he’ll develop into top-level NFL tackle, but he looks like the best option in this draft.

32: Philadelphia Eagles — LSU RB Derrius Guice

The Super Bowl champions have few glaring needs. They let LeGarrette Blount walk in free agency and could look to Guice as an upgrade over Corey Clement as Jay Ajayi’s backup. A powerful runner with breakout ability, Guice and Ajayi would create an intimidating duo out of the Philly backfield.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Teammate bursts into tears during NFL star’s retirement

• Charles Robinson: Why things may get ugly for Rodgers, Packers

• Report: LeBron sued over barbershop web show

• Are Yankees fans being too tough on Stanton?

It’s time for another talk about surging Arizona lefty Patrick Corbin (left) (AP Photo/Rick Scuteri)

Last month, we encouraged you to draft Patrick Corbin. Two weeks ago, we initiated a Corbin victory lap.

And today, on April 18, we wonder what the heck to do with Corbin. Is he really an ace now? Are we really talking about a potential season-winning pick here?

[It’s not too late to join a Yahoo Fantasy Baseball league!]

Corbin’s made four starts in 2018 and they’ve all been outstanding. He’s struck out 8, 12, 9, and 8 batters in those turns, with five collective walks. Tuesday’s start against San Francisco was the best of the bunch, a dazzling one-hit shutout that required just 100 pitches. The only Giants hit was an accidental one — Brandon Belt’s check-swing dribbler in the eighth inning turned into an infield hit against the Arizona shift.

Corbin is currently the No. 2 rated pitcher in the Yahoo game, with those three wins, 37 strikeouts, 1.65 ERA and 0.70 WHIP. Max Scherzer has been an eyelash better, Justin Verlander a speck worse. Corbin stockholders walk around with a bounce in their step.

The first thing we need to consider when evaluating Corbin long-term is that he’s been a legitimate all-star before. In his breakthrough 2013 season, he had a 2.45 ERA and 1.02 WHIP as late as Aug. 20. If you grade all the starters for the first 20 weeks of that season, Corbin was the No. 7 guy before a rocky finish. Corbin had a rough turn at Philly on Aug. 25, and never seemed at full health the remainder of the year, though he gutted through it through six September starts.

Corbin’s career has been up-and-down since then. He blew out his elbow early in 2014, had Tommy John surgery. He was solid in a partial 2015 season, and knocked about in a mediocre 2016. Last year was a mixed bag — 14 wins, 178 strikeouts in 189.2 innings, a tidy ERA at home (3.15), a jagged one on the road (5.09). Corbin’s biggest struggle was getting right-handed batters out — they slashed .292/.348/.482 against him.

Story Continues

Although Corbin looks like a two-pitch pitcher in some raw-stat collection — fastball and slider — he’s really throwing three pitches, as he tinkers with the speed of his slider. His change-up has been scrapped. Corbin is dominating lefties as usual, and the new approach is mowing down righties as well (.446 OPS). Maybe this is a pitcher putting things together in his age-28 season.

The schedule has fallen well for Corbin thus far — three home starts (where he was great last year, and hello, humidor), and a road start at the Giants. But when someone pitches this well and has the back class that Corbin does, I’m not going to automatically shift into doubt mode. The question we need to ask ourselves right now is what can go right, what is Corbin’s upside? We’ve seen a 20-week run before where he was a legitimate needle mover. We might be back in that pocket now.

Heck, every pitcher has a downside — the fear of injury. The moment any name arm has a bad couple of starts or a velocity dip, intense worry kicks in. Throwing a baseball is an unnatural act. If MLB clubs knew how to really protect the pitcher, they’d be doing it. Starting pitchers aren’t taxed like they were in previous generations, but the DL churn hasn’t gone away.

I own multiple Corbin shares, but not as many as I’d like. Looking to test the market, I floated a Corbin for Dallas Keuchel offer this morning. The other guy named his team after Keuchel, and it’s a league based out of Houston.

About 30 minutes later, the result filtered in.

“Cobra Keuchel has rejected your trade offer of Dallas Keuchel for Patrick Corbin.” This is a Houston-based league. — scott pianowski (@scott_pianowski) April 18, 2018

(That trade rejection might be more about Keuchel’s tricky value than Corbin’s early surge, but it’s still an interesting data point.)

Is Corbin as good as he’s looked thus far? Doubtful. No one’s really that good. But exposing the outlier does nothing helpful; we can’t scream “Regression!” and drop the mic. My advice to Corbin owners is simple — if you don’t love the Corbin offer you field this week, if it doesn’t basically accept itself, I’d simply say no. I believe this breakthrough is real, or at least has a strong chance of being real. I’m thinking anyone who drafted Corbin a month ago is going to still be beaming and proud, several months down the road.

Share your Corbin love letters, correspondence and advice in the comments. And curses to you, Brandon Belt — everyone knows you don’t hit a check-swing infield single when a no-hitter is intact. Sic transit gloria.

• I wish I had a happy song to sing on Kenley Jansen, but my television shows me the same stuff yours does. (And if you’re blocked from viewing Dodgers games, yes, vent away. That unmistakable greed cannot be accepted. I’ll never forgive those guys for denying some people the Vin Scully victory lap.)

Jansen blew his second save of the year Tuesday at San Diego, allowing a Eric Hosmer homer and a game-tying hit from scuffling Chase Headley. It could have been worse — Christian Villanueva missed a home run by a couple of feet (and Chris Taylor made a nifty catch on the play). Jansen’s strikeout rate is down, his walk rate is bloated, his velocity is two MPH down from his norm.

This is usually where teams speak of mechanical fixes and trusting in a proven veteran. And maybe that’s where Jansen will go — maybe this blip will be something we laugh about later in the summer. But I don’t blame anyone who makes a speculation bet in this bullpen. I think it would take a lot for Jansen to be benched for any length of time, but maybe a DL stint could come calling, even if it’s just a brief break for Jansen to get his feet back under him.

Josh Fields (1.00/0.78, 12 strikeouts in 9 IP) is my first target as a save hedge. Ross Stripling has been effective, despite five walks; it’s one of those cases where the ERA (0.79) doesn’t match the WHIP. He’s getting about a strikeout per inning. Place your bets, handshake chasers.

• Bud Norris doesn’t look like an imposing, prototypical closer. He checks in at 6-feet, 215 pounds. His career ERA, mostly from starting assignments, is in the mid-4s. Norris has been a ticket-to-ride pitcher through a 10-year career, playing for seven different teams. He’s a renter, not a buyer.

But Norris is on a handshake run for the Cardinals, his latest team, and maybe this story will stick for a while.

Norris had a working-class save at Wrigley on Tuesday night, getting the last five outs. He struck out three, and needed just 21 pitches. Greg Holland, the guy signed to be the closer a few weeks ago, worked the eighth and made another mess (two walks, Javier Baez homer). Holland already has seven walks (one intentional) through 2.1 innings of work.

Momentum is a thing in the saves chase. The guy with the baton is often the man to bet on. Norris has three straight save conversions, four in all, and he’s collected 17 strikeouts against just one walk. No matter what the long game is for the Cardinals, Norris probably holds the ninth until some natural events give Mike Matheny a clear pathway to change. Managers generally aren’t risk-takers and proactive thinkers. They want defined buttons to push, and Norris is presenting an easy one.

Milwaukee’s best (AP Photo/Aaron Gash)

• While Norris might not be electric, even with that juicy K/BB ratio, Josh Hader is a bolt of adrenaline. Hader wrapped up Tuesday’s 2-0 victory over Cincinnati, a tidy 29 pitches over two smooth innings (1 H, 3 K). The seasonal stats read like a gigantic misprint: 11.2 IP, 3 R, 2 R, 1 BB, 25 K. And the moving pictures look even better.

Unfortunately, the save-desperate among us can’t kick other Milwaukee options to the curb. As fun as two-inning saves are, you can’t rely on them every night. Hader still might be more valuable for Milwaukee as a rover, a “go where needed” guy, their version of Andrew Miller. Maybe Corey Knebel will eventually have a smooth return from his hamstring injury. Matt Albers is going to see some leverage work, even if it’s hell to watch at times. Jacob Barnes isn’t bad.

In the meantime, my plan is to watch Hader every time he pitches. Isn’t that the ultimate endorsement for any pitcher? You trust him so much, you enjoy him so much, you can watch him live and not feel that twinge of anxiety. Have a big glass of the Haderade. This could be another league-winning pick, blossoming before our eyes.

Follow the Yahoo fantasy baseball crew on Twitter: Andy Behrens, Dalton Del Don, and Scott Pianowski.Colorado State Zack Golditch sings the fight song near the student section after a September 2016 win in Fort Collins, Colorado. (Getty Images)

Zack Golditch is a survivor of the terrifying 2012 theater shooting in Aurora, Colorado. He was shot in the neck during a showing of “The Dark Knight Returns,” one of 70 injured on a night when 12 people were killed.

And now, per a fascinating article in USA Today, Golditch is trying to add another chapter to his life: NFL rookie.

“[W]hat I hold on to right now is a story, not just about myself, but about … everyone else. I can carry that and represent them through what I do and how I carry myself,” Golditch told USA Today’s Lindsay Jones. “I have to embrace it.”

Golditch was in a theater adjacent to the one where a gunman opened fire during a midnight showing of the movie. He was hit in the neck by a bullet that came through the wall, but the bullet managed to miss major arteries or his spine. Golditch was released from the hospital after seven hours, and during vigils afterward, he reaffirmed his commitment to making his mark via football.

Golditch attended Colorado State University, where he played offensive line, and won or was nominated for several awards based on both his play and his character. He graduated in December, the first member of his family to do so, and he’s spent the last few months training for the NFL and meeting with scouts. (One, apparently unaware of Golditch’s history, asked him about a time he faced adversity in his life.)

“I hope when teams watch my film they see a guy who’s a competitor, someone who is not afraid and won’t back down from a challenge,” he said. “Doesn’t matter if you’re bigger than me or better than me, I’m going to come back every single play and give my best effort and try to be better the next play.”

A hand injury kept Golditch from several major workouts, which hampered his draft stock. NFL Draft Scout ranks him 40th among 86 offensive tackles. He may need to wait till free agency to latch on with a team, but there’s no doubting what he could bring to a roster.

Story Continues

____

Jay Busbee is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Contact him at jay.busbee@yahoo.com or find him on Twitter or on Facebook.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Ohtani gets quick reality check after blazing start

• Report: Brady hasn’t decided on playing in 2018

• McKayla Maroney speaks out on Nassar abuse scandal

• Jeff Passan: How a Twitter war may spark a much-needed MLB change

Tim Tebow is 30 years old and currently plays baseball for the Binghamton Rumble Ponies, but if the 2007 Heisman Trophy winner has a desire to get back into football it would appear that he's finally got an offer on the table. The former star quarterback for the Florida Gators would even get to potentially play in the same state where he had so much college success. Tebow's football offer comes from Steve Spurrier, who was officially named as the coach of the Orlando franchise in the Alliance of American Football on Saturday. Spurrier doesn't have any players yet, but it sounds like he would be very interested in adding Tebow. "That would be wonderful," Spurrier said on the Open Mike radio showWe are about a week from the 2018 NFL Draft, but the combine is now history, players and teams are jockeying for position, and experts have weighed in on who they think will be drafted by each team in the first round. We surveyed 13 NFL Draft experts who have released mock drafts recently to get a sense for which players teams might be considering with all 32 first-round picks. With so many experts projecting trades in the first round, it is difficult to pinpoint a consensus draft order, but we can get a sense of where each player might end up and how early they might hear their name called. The experts: ESPN's Mel Kiper, ESPN's Todd McShay, NFL.com's Bucky Brooks, NFL.com's Chad Reuter, NFL.com'sWe're closing in on the one week mark until the 2018 NFL Draft, and it's entirely possible that this draft becomes the most bonkers draft we've seen in years. The NFL offseason has been wild, full of trades all over the place and just generally insane. Expect it to continue in the draft. In fact, most everyone who does a mock draft has been throwing trades in, even though that's something you don't often see. It's just that obvious teams will be flying all over the place in order to make moves for quarterbacks. In the latest version of my mock draft, which I suppose is my next-to-last mock, I tested out an idea that Pete Prisco mentioned on the Pick Six Podcast (subscribe on iTunes here to getOn Monday, Jacksonville Jaguars linebacker Paul Posluszny made his retirement official at an emotional ceremony with teammate Telvin Smith.

Smith introduced Posluszny and almost immediately broke into tears when speaking about his teammate of four years.

“I promise you as soon as I met him, I knew I had a guy I could trust, who I could depend on,” Smith said. “I never thought I would meet somebody who didn’t grow up in the struggle that I did and love the game as much as I did.”

“I never met a better man than you. I’ve never had a better teammate than you.”

Posluszny, 33, played 11 seasons in the NFL with the Jaguars and Buffalo Bills, tallying 881 tackles and 16 sacks while earning Pro Bowl honors in 2013. He won the Dick Butkus award at Penn State in 2005 as college football’s best linebacker.

“I love the game too much and I respect it too much to not be able, physically, to do everything that I’ve done in years past,” Posluszny said in a statement. “If that’s a year too early, I’ll regret it, but I’d rather be a year too early than one play too late.”

Jacksonville Jaguars linebacker Paul Posluszny made his retirement official at an emotional ceremony with teammate Telvin Smith. (AP)

More from Yahoo Sports:

• JamesHarrison announces retirement

• 44-year-old pitcher flirts with perfect game

• 49ers star not with team due to domestic violence case

• LeBron suffers rare first-round playoff defeat

Last summer, LaMarcus Aldridge told Gregg Popovich he wasn’t happy and wanted to be traded out of San Antonio. The result was a “come to Jesus” meeting between the two.

“I was very candid with him. I told him, ‘you get me a talent like Kevin Durant and I’ll drive you to the airport. I’ll pack your bags, I’ll drive you there, I’ll get you on the plane and I’ll get you seated,’” Popovich said with a smile. “And he laughed at that. But short of that, I’m your best buddy, because you’re here for another year and you’re not going nowhere. Because we’re not going to get, for you, talent-wise what we would want. So let’s figure this thing out.”

They did figure it out. Popovich and Aldridge talked fit and offensive style, with the coach coming to the realization he needed to adapt, too. The result is Aldridge having an All-NBA level season.

But you think because Kawhi Leonard — a more talented player entering his prime — is not on the sidelines for the playoffs Popovich and R.C. Buford are going to trade him?

Things are not good right now between Leonard and the Spurs, there is no communication going on and there is a standoff. Leonard is with his people working out in New York, the Spurs are trying to win a game against the Warriors in the playoffs. However, trading Leonard is another level. The Spurs aren’t there yet, as Marc Stein of the New York Times reported in his weekly newsletter.

One well-placed insider who has closely monitored this situation told me recently that the Spurs continue to give off signals behind the scenes that they won’t trade Leonard.

Will the Spurs get there?

Yes, Popovich sat down with Aldridge last summer and hashed things out, but this case feels different, as Tim Bontemps points out at the Washington Post.

The most important difference, though, is that Popovich met with Aldridge and was able to hash out everything last summer, laying the foundation for a bounceback all-star season. There is a reason that Popovich repeatedly refers to Leonard as “Leonard and his group,” a reference to a group now led by agent Mitch Frankel and Leonard’s uncle, Dennis Robertson. It is unclear if Leonard and Popovich can even have that same kind of meeting, or if things between Leonard’s camp and the Spurs have grown so fractious that it’s past that point. Even if Leonard and Popovich can have such a meeting, could it create the same result? Without that happening, it seems impossible to think this ends any other way than with Leonard being traded this summer. Just like Jimmy Butler and DeMarcus Cousins before him, the supermax has become a zero-sum game for teams. If they are willing to offer it to a player, they do, and the player signs it (see: James Harden and John Wall). If they are not, they don’t, and the player gets traded (see: Butler and Cousins).

Story Continues

That is the ultimate test in this case, the designated player max extension — which would ultimately lock Leonard in for six years at around a total of $219 million.

Come July 1 (or soon after), do the Spurs feel confident enough in their relationship with Leonard and the health of his quadriceps tendon to put the offer on the table? If so, he will sign it.

If not, then a trade becomes a legitimate discussion. And there are 29 teams that would be interested — the Spurs would get a quality package of players/picks in return.

But the Spurs are not there yet.

More NBA coverage:

The 2018 NBA Draft has long been considered special because of the star-power at the top and depth throughout the lottery. Obviously, there's no guarantee you'll get a difference-maker picking seventh -- or first, for that matter. But could you get one picking seventh? Yes, I think, you absolutely could. And that's what makes this draft more exciting than most. As you know, the lottery odds are now set. So I decided to freshen-up my 2018 NBA Mock Draft -- one that now better reflects what I think franchises will actually do as opposed to what I'd do. That's why I have Arizona's Deandre Ayton going No. 1. He's not necessarily the player I'd take No. 1. But he does appear to be the player PhoenixBoston (AFP) - An unknown runner from Arizona celebrated a $75,000 (60,500-euro) payday Monday after shocking the field to claim a second place finish at the Boston Marathon.

While American woman Desiree Linden was celebrating her victory in the prestigious event, the spotlight also shone on runner-up Sarah Sellers, an unheralded part-time runner who came in four minutes behind the winner.

Sellers, 26, who works as a nurse in Arizona, was running only her second marathon after starting training roughly seven months ago.

Her only previous marathon was a qualifying event in Utah, which she won. She paid a $180 entry fee to race in Boston, and admitted she was surprised to be placed in the elite field competition.

However, Sellers produced the race of her life in atrocious weather to finish in 2hrs 44min 04sec.

The novice marathoner had been in 25th place at the halfway mark but gradually reeled in the leaders to move up to 13th with six miles to go, eventually moving up to second.

"I still think I'm going to wake up and it's gonna be a dream," Sellers told running news website letsrun.com. "I felt good out there. The conditions were really tough. But I'm shocked at the place. I had no idea."

Sellers, who is originally from Utah, graduated from college in 2015, but a stress fracture forced her to take nearly two years off from running.

"I didn't think I had a chance," said Sellers after Monday's race, revealing she had no idea of her place in the field until she was informed after finishing. "I thought I was top 10."

Sellers, who works as a full-time nurse anesthetist at Banner Health Center in Tucson, Arizona, told reporters she has limited opportunities to train for distance running, fitting in runs either in the early hours before she starts work, or late at night. She usually logs around 85 training miles each week.

Story Continues

Her coach at Weber State University in Utah, Paul Pilkington, told The Salt Lake Tribune he was similarly stunned as he followed the race.

"I kept hitting refresh on the race results. Did they miss somebody? Did I miss somebody?" said Pilkington, who continues to coach Sellers from long distance, giving her advice on training routines and schedules.

"I always felt like her career should have ended better," Pilkington told the Tribune. "It's great to have her reach this level now.

"I knew she was in very good shape. But if you would have told me she was second at Boston, I would have said no way."Freddie Roach (L) works with Manny Pacquiao during a training session at Lang Park PCYC on June 27, 2017 in Brisbane, Australia. (Getty Images)

Manny Pacquiao made Freddie Roach rich and famous, and Roach in turn helped Pacquiao become one of the greatest boxers of his generation.

Their partnership ended, though, after 16 years and countless major victories not with a telephone call or a face-to-face meeting but in a Friday press release.

And that is the only thing that disappoints the Hall of Fame trainer about hitting the end of the line with his most famous client.

“We had a great long run together and I can’t be too mad,” Roach told Yahoo Sports by telephone. “I heard it like everyone else, and that’s the thing that is a little disappointing, but my thoughts mostly are about all the good times we had and the work we did together. When Manny Pacquiao walked through my door, it changed my life.

“He made me a better trainer and a better person and of course, I’m a lot more famous now and I’m a lot richer than I was.”

Pacquiao has the right to have whomever he wants train him, and he chose his childhood friend, Buboy Fernandez, to prepare him for his July 14 bout in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, against Lucas Matthysse.

He showed little class in doing it in a press release, though in an obvious bit of damage control on Sunday, Pacquiao put out a statement saying he hadn’t made up his mind.

Pacquiao was apparently bothered by comments Roach made after his controversial loss last summer in Australia to Jeff Horn, when he said it was difficult to be a boxer and a politician.

Manny Pacquiao (R) is helped in his corner between rounds by trainer Freddie Roach during his welterweight title fight against Floyd Mayweather Jr. on Saturday, May 2, 2015 in Las Vegas. (AP Photo)

Roach told Yahoo Sports after the fight, “I told him that the way his career is going, being a leader in his country and being a senator and dealing with all the responsibilities that come with that, he might have to give up boxing. Boxing is a very physical sport and a very rough sport and having two jobs like he has is so tough. He’s just always going like crazy.”

Story Continues

Roach said Monday that he hasn’t changed his opinion and said it is just about impossible to succeed at the highest levels in boxing while also being a senator, as Pacquiao is in the Philippines.

Most experts thought Pacquiao defeated Horn, but he did not look like the superstar who was Fighter of the Decade for the 2000s.

“Being a prize fighter is difficult but being a world champion prize fighter is so incredibly difficult,” Roach said. “It takes just about all of your time and focus and energy, and I just can’t imagine being able to do it and having another job. That’s how hard it is.

“I didn’t know Manny was mad about that when I said it. I wish he had said something to me about it so we could have spoken. My opinion hasn’t changed, but I wish we could have spoken to each other. But I have no complaints because my life is so much better in so many ways because of Manny Pacquiao.”

Roach refuted speculation that Pacquiao adviser Michael Koncz forced him out. He noted the two had a rocky relationship, but that when Roach threatened to leave a short time back, Koncz came to his defense. Roach said Koncz realized that he was good for Pacquiao and so he didn’t interfere.

He said he thinks Fernandez will do a good job for Pacquiao. Fernandez has never worked at a high level, other than as an assistant to Roach, but he’s worked with young fighters in the Philippines.

Pacquiao trusts him and that will be important, Roach said.

“He’s had some success locally and he’s good on the mitts,” Roach said. “I’d like to see him lose some weight and get into better shape so he can work harder, but I think he’ll be fine.”

And Roach, who is going to be one of the coaches on a revival of the boxing reality series, “The Contender,” said he’ll be fine too.

He was an understudy to Eddie Futch, arguably the greatest trainer in boxing history, and became a star trainer in his own right when he moved on. The partnership with Pacquiao was extremely fruitful for both.

They began to work together in 2001, when Pacquiao defeated Leila Ledwaba to win a super bantamweight title. He went on to become, along with Floyd Mayweather, the dominant fighter of the 21st century and a surefire Hall of Famer.

Roach won Trainer of the Year seven times between 2003 and 2014, all during his tenure with Pacquiao, and was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.

Roach said the Matthysse fight will be difficult but said he’ll be rooting for Pacquiao to win. He said this is the second time he learned he was fired by reading about it in the paper.

The same happened when he was working with Virgil Hill.

“If Manny would have called me and told me what he wanted to do, it would have been a perfect ending, but I learned a long time ago life is not perfect,” Roach said. “If there is anything I’m disappointed in about this, obviously, it’s that I had to read it in the newspaper and I didn’t hear it from Manny first. That stings a little, and it’s disappointing, but there are no hard feelings.

“All I can say is that I am thankful for the time I had with him. Not a lot of guys get to stay 15, 16 years with the same fighter. That is very unusual. We had a great run and all I can say now is good luck and wish him the best.”

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Jeff Passan: MLB’s scary problem has nothing to do with weather

• Desiree Linden makes history with Boston Marathon win

• Angels ask fans to be quiet during Ohtani’s at-bats

• JamesHarrison announces retirement

The Philadelphia 76ers lost Game 2 of their playoff series with the Miami Heat at home on Monday, and injured star Joel Embiid is clearly frustrated with the situation.

Embiid, who passed concussion protocol this week after suffering a fractured orbital bone, was not cleared to play for Game 2 and let his emotions show on Instagram after watching the Heat tie the series at 1-1.

And, uh, Joel apparently feels the same way. pic.twitter.com/QimkcCPyd4 — Kyle Neubeck (@KyleNeubeck) April 17, 2018





Philadelphia head coach Brett Brown shed some light on Embiid’s post when asked about it after the game.

Brett Brown reacts to Joel Embiid’s Instagram story pic.twitter.com/ydKTyaJVV7 — Dennis Chambers (@DennisChambers_) April 17, 2018





“He just wants to play basketball,” Brown said. “He wants to be with his team. He wants to play in front of the fans. He wants to see this through. When he’s not able to do that, he gets frustrated. I respect his frustration. It’s born out of competitiveness and it’s born out of him wanting to be with his team.”

Embiid has gone through a lot dealing with injuries and can’t be happy missing out on the first playoff games of his career, especially at home. His status for Thursday’s Game 3 in Miami has not yet been determined.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Jeff Passan: MLB’s scary problem has nothing to do with weather

• Desiree Linden makes history with Boston Marathon win

• Angels ask fans to be quiet during Ohtani’s at-bats

• JamesHarrison announces retirement



Story Continues