Former President Barack Obama wrote a moving tribute to five outspoken survivors of the Parkland, Florida, high school massacre for TIME magazine’s annual list of 100 influential people, released on Thursday.

The 44th president praised students Cameron Kasky, Jaclyn Corin, David Hogg, Emma González and Alex Wind for demanding tougher gun control legislation following the Feb. 14 mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School.

“Seared by memories of seeing their friends murdered at a place they believed to be safe, these young leaders don’t intimidate easily,” Obama wrote. “They see the [National Rifle Association] and its allies — whether mealymouthed politicians or mendacious commentators peddling conspiracy theories — as mere shills for those who make money selling weapons of war to whoever can pay.”

“They’re as comfortable speaking truth to power as they are dismissive of platitudes and punditry,” he continued. “And they live to mobilize their peers. ... The Parkland students are shaking us out of our complacency.”

The five students helped spawn the #NeverAgain movement to end gun violence and spearheaded the organization behind March For Our Lives, the massive nationwide protest calling for stricter firearm regulation held on March 24.

“Thank you @Time for this honor and an immense thank you to @BarackObama for the kind words,” Wind tweeted Thursday.

Thank you @TIME and @BarackObama for honoring all of the Parkland students through your kind words #Time100https://t.co/BRbccRL4YC — Jaclyn Corin (@JaclynCorin) April 19, 2018

Obama, along with former first lady Michelle Obama, penned a letter to the survivors-turned-activists days before March For Our Lives, expressing support and applauding them for their “resilience, resolve and solidarity that you have all shown in the wake of unspeakable tragedy.”

“Our kids now show us what we’ve told them America is all about, even if we haven’t always believed it ourselves: that our future isn’t written for us, but by us,” Obama wrote in the TIME profile.

Check out the full list of this year’s TIME 100 here.WASHINGTON (AP) — Former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, an outspoken supporter of Donald Trump since the early days of his campaign, is joining the team of lawyers representing the president in the special counsel's Russia investigation.

With the addition of Giuliani, Trump gains a former U.S. attorney, a past presidential candidate and a TV-savvy defender at a time when the White House is looking for ways to bring the president's involvement with special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation to a close.

The president has been weighing whether to sit for questioning by Mueller's team, and his legal team has repeatedly met with investigators to define the scope of the questions he would face. Giuliani will enter those negotiations, filling the void left by attorney John Dowd, who resigned last month.

It's a precarious time for Trump. His legal team has been told by Mueller that the president is not a target of the investigation, suggesting he's not in imminent criminal jeopardy. But he is currently a subject of the probe — a designation that could change at any time.

Trump personal attorney Jay Sekulow told The Associated Press that Giuliani will be focusing on the Mueller investigation — not the legal matters raised by the ongoing investigation into Trump attorney Michael Cohen. That probe is being led by the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, an office that Giuliani headed in the mid- to late 1980s.

Cohen's office, home and hotel room were raided last week by the FBI, who are investigating the lawyer's business dealings, including suspected bank fraud. They also sought records related to payments to porn actress Stormy Daniels and former Playboy model Karen McDougal, who both claim to have had sexual encounters with Trump several years ago. The White House has denied the claims.

The raids enraged Trump, prompting him to publicly weigh whether to fire Mueller or Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. He also intensified his public attacks on the Mueller investigation, calling it "an attack on our country."

In a statement announcing Giuliani's hire, Trump expressed his wish that the investigation wrap up soon and praised Giuliani, a fellow New Yorker, confidant and Mar-a-Lago regular.

"Rudy is great," Trump said. "He has been my friend for a long time and wants to get this matter quickly resolved for the good of the country."

Giuliani will be joining Sekulow on Trump's personal legal team but will be working closely with White House lawyer Ty Cobb, who has also been handling the administration's cooperation with the Mueller investigation.

"It is an honor to be a part of such an important legal team, and I look forward to not only working with the President but with Jay, Ty and their colleagues," Giuliani said in a statement.

In addition to Giuliani, two other former federal prosecutors — Jane Serene Raskin and Marty Raskin — will be joining Trump's legal team. The two, who are married and run a law firm together, are based in Florida but handle cases across the United States. Both have extensive experience prosecuting organized crime and representing defendants in complex white-collar and fraud investigations.

Giuliani, who was New York mayor during the Sept. 11 attacks, has known Trump for decades and his aggressive, hard-charging rhetorical style can at times mirror that of the president.

He had widely been expected to join Trump's administration. But Giuliani rejected the idea of becoming attorney general, lobbying Trump to name him secretary of state. Trump picked Rex Tillerson and Giuliani was left without a Cabinet post.

The two men share similar policy ideals, publicly supporting law enforcement in ways that have alienated minorities, and taking bullish stances on immigration enforcement.

In 2016, for instance, Giuliani fiercely criticized the Black Lives Matter movement, saying it encouraged violence against police. More recently, he has said he was consulted by Trump on how to implement the travel ban put in place last year against Muslim-majority nations.

Giuliani has been working at the influential law firm Greenberg Traurig, where he has been a senior adviser and head of the firm's cybersecurity, privacy and crisis management practice.

On Thursday, the firm's executive chairman Richard A. Rosenbaum released a statement saying Giuliani would be taking a leave of absence "for an unspecified period of time to handle matters unrelated to the law firm or its clients."WASHINGTON (AP) — In a series of startlingly candid conversations, President Donald Trump told former FBI Director James Comey that he had serious concerns about the judgment of a top adviser, asked about the possibility of jailing journalists and described a boast from Vladimir Putin about Russian prostitutes, according to Comey's notes of the talks obtained by The Associated Press on Thursday night.

The 15 pages of documents contain new details about a series of interactions with Trump that Comey found so unnerving that he chose to document them in writing. Those seven encounters in the weeks and months before Comey's May 2017 firing include a Trump Tower discussion about allegations involving Trump and prostitutes in Moscow; a White House dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty; and a private Oval Office discussion where the ex-FBI head says the president asked him to end an investigation into Michael Flynn, the former White House national security adviser.

The documents had been eagerly anticipated since their existence was first revealed last year, especially since Comey's interactions with Trump are a critical part of special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into whether the president sought to obstruct justice. Late Thursday night, Trump tweeted that the memos "show clearly that there was NO COLLUSION and NO OBSTRUCTION."

The president also accused Comey of leaking classified information. The memos obtained by the AP were unclassified, though some portions were blacked out as classified. Details from Comey's memos reported in news stories last year appear to come from the unclassified portions.

In explaining the purpose of creating the memos, which have been provided to Mueller, Comey has said he "knew there might come a day when I would need a record of what had happened" to defend not only himself but the FBI as well.

The memos cover the first three months of the Trump administration, a period of upheaval marked by staff turnover, a cascade of damaging headlines and revelations of an FBI investigation into potential ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. The documents reflect Trump's uneasiness about that investigation, though not always in ways that Comey seemed to anticipate.

In a February 2017 conversation, for instance, Trump told Comey how Putin told him, "we have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world" even as the president adamantly, and repeatedly, distanced himself from a salacious allegation concerning him and prostitutes in Moscow, according to one memo.

In another memo, Comey recounts how Trump at a private White House dinner pointed his fingers at his head and complained that Flynn, his embattled national security adviser, "has serious judgment issues." The president blamed Flynn for failing to alert him promptly to a congratulatory call from a world leader, causing a delay for Trump in returning a message to an official whose name is redacted in the documents.

"I did not comment at any point during this topic and there was no mention or acknowledgment of any FBI interest in or contact with General Flynn," Comey wrote.

By that point, the FBI had already interviewed Flynn about his contacts with the Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, and the Justice Department had already warned White House officials that they were concerned Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail.

Flynn was fired Feb. 13, 2017, after White House officials said he had misled them about his Russian contacts during the transition period by saying that he had not discussed sanctions. The following day, according to a separate memo, Comey says Trump cleared the Oval Office of other officials, encouraged him to let go of the investigation into Flynn and called him a good guy. Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and is now cooperating with Mueller's investigation.

The memos reveal that days before Flynn's firing, then-White House chief of staff Reince Priebus asked Comey if Flynn's communications were being monitored under a secret surveillance warrant.

"Do you have a FISA order on Mike Flynn?" Priebus asked Comey, according to the memos, referring to an order under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.

Comey said he "paused for a few seconds and then said that I would answer here, but that this illustrated the kind of question that had to be asked and answered through established channels."COLUMBIA, Ill. — As Daryl Cates well knows, farming requires a mix of luck and faith. The 62-year-old has spent most of his life working the dark, rich soil of his family’s farm here a little over a mile east of the Mississippi River, in rural southern Illinois.

For four generations, the Cates family survived the whims of Mother Nature, from epic drought to the “great flood” of 1993, when the rain-swollen Mississippi burst its banks and destroyed thousands of acres of farmland here. This spring, the weather has been rainy and colder than usual — conditions that could force Cates to delay his annual planting of corn and soybeans, which usually begins in mid- to late April.

Farming requires the ability to be “calm and steady” and prepared to handle “whatever the weather throws at you,” Cates said, as he walked through one of his muddy fields on a recent afternoon. “That’s the life.”

But these days, he’s is dealing with more than just the unpredictability of nature. Like other farmers here in this deeply agricultural region, he is worried about a potential trade war with China as President Trump moves to deliver on a campaign promise to crack down on a rising superpower that he has described as an “economic enemy” of the U.S.

After spending much of his White House bid railing against China for currency manipulation and trade practices that he has said is responsible for killing thousands of American jobs and costing billions of dollars in lost revenues, Trump last month issued a 25 percent duty on global steel imports and a 10 percent duty on aluminum. The policy, which exempts allies like the European Union, Australia, South Korea, Brazil, Argentina, Canada and Mexico, was widely perceived as a slap at China. It was followed weeks later by another sweeping set of tariffs on roughly $60 billion in Chinese goods, including computers and other electronics, as punishment for what the Trump administration described as “decades” of intellectual property theft from U.S. companies by the Chinese.

Trump’s trade moves had instant results. On the same day the White House announced the steel and aluminum tariffs, United States Steel announced it would reopen one of two idled blast furnaces at its plant in Granite City, Ill., across the Mississippi River from St. Louis, where more than 2,000 workers were laid off two years ago. The move would result in 500 new jobs in coming months — a much-needed boost for a region that has been hard hit by a downturn in manufacturing.

The headquarters of Granite City Steel in Granite City, Ill. (Photo: Holly Bailey/Yahoo News) More

Trump and his aides immediately seized on the news, citing Granite City as proof that his economic policies are working. “It’s about JOBS JOBS JOBS for our incredible workers and putting AMERICA FIRST!” Trump tweeted.

While Trump’s crackdown on China was cheered in the northern part of Illinois’s 12th Congressional District, where Granite City Steel is located, there was a much more tempered reaction just 20 miles to the south, where soybean farmers like Cates count China as one of their most important trading partners. In retaliation to Trump, China announced it was considering trade penalties of its own against U.S. agricultural goods, including a 25 percent tariff on American soybean imports — a potentially devastating move for Illinois farmers who worry they could lose one of their biggest export markets.

“It makes you nervous, really nervous,” Cates said. “We’re not sitting on an island where you’re just worried about the United States. We’re looking at the world. The world is our market. …If you lose a customer, a big customer like China, they are going to start buying somewhere else, and that’s a huge issue for us.”

According to the Department of Agriculture, roughly half of U.S. soybean exports, some $14 billion worth, went to China in 2017. One third of the total U.S. crop was sold to China, which buys whole soybeans to feed its rapidly expanding pork industry. In Illinois, the top producing soybean state in the country for the last four years, more than 25 percent of the harvest went to China last year, amounting to roughly $2 billion in sales, according to the Illinois Soybean Association.So here we have another typical week in the capital: President Trump humiliated his own United Nations secretary, Nikki Haley, who announced to the world that the administration was handing down new sanctions against the Russians without realizing that Trump had decided not to do that, because by now it’s clear that he’s way more protective of Moscow than he is of anyone in his administration.

(A little free advice for the president: If you’re going to undermine a member of your Cabinet, maybe choose Pruitt or DeVos, or someone else who wouldn’t completely dismantle you in a Republican primary if she woke up one morning and thought to herself, “Ah, what the hell.”)

But let’s leave the daily drama of Trump’s Washington there for now, and let’s talk instead about the much larger question of how we got here and where we’re headed.

As you may have seen, my colleague Jon Ward, who’s one of the best political reporters anywhere, published a thoughtful and provocative mini-treatise this week about the decline of parties over the last half century or so.

I know how it feels to have your complex ideas distilled down to CliffsNotes, so I hope you’ll read Jon’s piece for yourself rather than rely on my summation, but essentially the argument goes like this: Reforms that were meant to transfer power away from party establishments to individual voters, beginning in the 1960s, have had the perverse effect, over time, of obliterating a crucial buffer between the voters and all manner of extremists or charlatans.

With weaker parties comes not the idealized form of democratic participation that reformers had envisioned, but rather a riotous process that allows someone like Donald Trump to pretty much walk in and take over the entire operation with a plurality of reactionary supporters.

To be clear, I don’t think Jon is suggesting we return to the days when a handful of party bosses could effectively choose or veto the nominees. He’s saying that the system has tipped too far now in the other direction, and that the only way to save our political system is to rediscover a balance that gives party elites more control — something more along the lines of the superdelegate system Democrats instituted in the 1980s.

(Jon’s also launched a fun podcast around this subject, which I’ll take a moment here to plug.)

It’s hard to argue with the diagnosis here. The system for selecting candidates we have now is too easily overwhelmed by passionate minorities and digitized mobs, and I’m betting that Democrats who felt smug about the implosion of Republicans in 2016 are about to find out just how perilously unruly the process can get for them, too.

But when it comes to the remedy, I arrive at a slightly different, and maybe more optimistic, place.

For one thing, I’ve never been a fan of political parties, generally. As party structures have grown weaker over the course of my lifetime, and as more of us have chosen to remain unaffiliated, the parties themselves have become increasingly dogmatic, homogeneous and intolerant of dissent. Most often, they reflect the impulses of their most cloistered constituents.

I can’t imagine that giving those party establishments more control over our politics would actually have any kind of moderating or ennobling influence, even if we could.

More to the point, we can’t, or at least not without a well-equipped DeLorean. Parties haven’t lost their influence because we changed the rules; we changed the rules because big institutions everywhere were beginning to lose their influence.

That’s not a trend we can just decide to reverse. It is, as I’ve written often over the past two decades, the central reality of our time.

Americans aren’t going to cede more power over their public affairs to politicians and local chairmen, any more than they’re going to trust priests or bankers or paid endorsers to decide what’s good for them. The more sway you give party leaders over the process, the more of an uprising you’ll see.National Security Advisor John Bolton arrives to attend a joint press conference held by U.S. President Donald Trump and Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida, U.S., April 18, 2018. REUTERS/Joe Skipper

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - White House national security adviser John Bolton told Russia's ambassador on Thursday that better relations between the two countries required addressing U.S. concerns on election meddling, a chemical attack in Britain, and the situations in Ukraine and Syria, the White House said.

It was the first meeting between Bolton, who started at the White House this month, and Russian Ambassador to the United States Anatoly Antonov, the administration said in a statement.

Bolton told Antonov it was in the interest of both countries to have better relations, but Russia must address allegations that Moscow interfered in the 2016 U.S. election and poisoned a former Russian spy in Britain, the statement said. Moscow has denied both allegations.

The statement said the United States also had concerns about the situations in Ukraine, where Russia backs separatists, and in Syria, where Moscow's military support has tipped the balance in favor of the Damascus government in a seven-year-old civil war.



Video: Investigation into Chemical Attack in Syria Delayed Again

Watch news, TV and more on Yahoo View.



(Reporting by Eric Beech in Washington and Steve Holland in West Palm Beach, Fla.; Editing by Mohammad Zargham and Peter Cooney)DES MOINES, Iowa — Last Friday, nine political reporters waited in the break room of a brand-new carpenter’s training facility in Altoona, Iowa, amid the buzzing of vending machines and the glare of fluorescent lights, for Eric Garcetti, the Democratic mayor of Los Angeles, to arrive.

The official reason Garcetti had flown 1,700 miles from L.A. to Iowa was to exchange ideas with a few fellow mayors and deliver pep talks to local Democrats gearing up for the 2018 midterm elections.

But the real reason, as Garcetti himself has admitted on numerous occasions, is that he is thinking about running for president in 2020. (He had already visited New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina, the other early primary states.) And so the national media — the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post, the Associated Press, NBC, Slate and Yahoo News — descended as well, even though Iowa’s first-in-the-nation caucuses are still more than 600 days away.

“How’s the campaign going?” one reporter mockingly asked another. “Is Garcetti ahead?”

“I’m waiting for the Des Moines Register poll to post on Sunday,” the second reporter cracked in response.

Suddenly, Garcetti appeared in the doorway. A scrum of millwrights, union leaders, facility managers and Altoona dignitaries surrounded him. Many were wearing large white hardhats and clear plastic goggles, Garcetti included.

“How’s everybody doing?” he said.

In the press pack, someone teasingly mentioned Michael Dukakis, whose ill-advised decision to don a helmet and mount a tank hobbled his own 1988 presidential bid. Garcetti’s media liaison, Yusef Robb, did a double-take. As Garcetti began to pose for photos, Robb tapped his boss on the shoulder and pointed to his head. The mayor got the message. He whipped off the hat, ran his fingers through his hair and flashed another smile for the cameras.

Garcetti takes off his hardhat before taking a tour of a Carpenters Local 106 training facility in Altoona, Iowa. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News)

Garcetti, at 47, is no political novice. He rocketed from city councilman to council president to mayor in 2013, and last year he won reelection with 81 percent of the vote. If he had left the protective headwear on, nobody would have minded or even noticed; hardhat photos of Donald Trump, Barack Obama and each of their five presidential predecessors are all over the internet.

Yet Garcetti’s on-the-fly adjustment reflected, in miniature, the larger challenge facing the Instagramming, jazz-loving, Spanish-speaking, Jewish-Latino mayor of the nation’s second-largest city — and the disoriented party he may someday aspire to lead. Both are figuring who they want to be in the Age of Trump; both are grappling with how best to present themselves to an America that denied Hillary Clinton the presidency and awarded it to the star of NBC’s “The Apprentice” instead.

Throughout his two-day Iowa trip, Garcetti was constantly refining and recalibrating — his manner, his image, his message.

Each time he emerged from the SUV conveying him across Iowa’s chilly April landscape, the candidate-in-waiting seemed to have changed clothes: an olive work shirt (or “shacket,” as Garcetti put it) for a breakfast with firefighters at a dive called Mullets; a V-neck sweater and untucked plaid shirt for a stop at Cooney’s Tavern; a slim, natty suit for a One Iowa gay-rights gala.

When an Iowa reporter asked under what circumstances he would run for president, Garcetti insisted that he would be “listening this year,” promising a final decision in 2019. Then, a few minutes later, he requested a “do-over.”

“I’m not here looking for a new job for me,” the mayor said, testing out a snappy line that seemed to have just occurred to him. “I’m looking for more new jobs for Americans.”

The process was fascinating to watch: an early glimpse of an unfamiliar politician from one of the most glamorous corners of the country beginning to mold himself into the kind of candidate whom workaday Middle Americans might want in the White House in two years’ time.

One thing, at least, was already clear by the end of Garcetti’s 300-mile swing, which took him from the state Capitol in Des Moines to his wife’s ancestors’ gravesite in Waterloo to a ballroom fundraiser in Davenport. He seems to think that the kind of candidate America will want in 2020 is the same kind of candidate it wanted not that long ago.

Namely, the Barack Obama kind.

Garcetti talks with local and national press after taking a tour of a Carpenters Local 106 training facility in Altoona, Iowa, on April 13. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

“I’m confident that the next president will be a contrast to this president: a decent person with the ability to unite folks and be hopeful,” Garcetti told me during an interview Saturday at Mullets.

“Right now, there’s a false dichotomy between red and blue, heartland and coast, rural and urban,” he said later. “The only ‘two Americas’ that exist are Washington and the rest of us.”

What isn’t clear, at a moment when most high-profile Democrats are blaming billionaires, bashing Donald Trump and burnishing their partisan bona fides, is whether “hope and change” still packs the punch it once did — or whether Garcetti can be the guy who revives it.

*****

The 2020 Democratic field is shaping up to be the most crowded and chaotic in recent memory. There’s no obvious frontrunner — no Obama or Hillary Clinton — to scare off the rest of the pack, and Trump’s daily provocations and historically weak approval ratings seem to have persuaded every elected Democrat in America that he or she could be the party’s next savior. In one lane, you have the brand-name senior citizens: former Vice President Joe Biden, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren. In another, you have the restless rookies: California Sen. Kamala Harris, New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker and New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand. Then there are all the wishful thinkers in between: former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley, Maryland Rep. John Delaney and so on.

Garcetti isn’t even the sole mayor considering a bid; both Mitch Landrieu of New Orleans and Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., have expressed interest. But so far, Garcetti may be the only hopeful betting that Obama’s 2008 playbook could still be the ticket to victory, a dozen years after it was first deployed.

Garcetti comes by this conviction honestly; he once told me that Obama was his “mentor.” As a young city councilman in 2007, Garcetti was among the first pols to endorse the Illinois senator, and he trekked to Iowa several times as a volunteer. During a stroll with the mayor of Des Moines through the city’s bustling East Village neighborhood last week, he paused to snap a selfie in front of Walnut Creek Church — Obama’s former campaign headquarters.

Garcetti walks with Des Moines Mayor Frank Cownie in the Des Moines East Village on April 13. Garcetti campaigned for then-Sen. Barack Obama from an office in the East Village in 2008. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

“I’ve got memories of meeting David Axelrod here, Kal Penn, so many people,” Garcetti said. “Even now, people will come up to me and be like, ‘We met in Iowa!’”

Over the next two days, Garcetti repeatedly began his speeches by reminding Iowans that his history with the former president started in their state.

“It’s been a decade since I was last here, walking precincts for a young senator from just one state away,” Garcetti said Friday at a meeting of Asian and Latino activists. “It was probably the best political experience of my life.”

“I remember knocking on a door with snow up to my waist, and someone answering it and saying, ‘We don’t care who you’re supporting — we’ll vote for him if you just come in,’” he added the following night in Davenport. “We miss those times. We miss that man, don’t we?”

And so, while the rest of his would-be rivals seem to be rebutting Trump in more pugnacious, populist tones, Garcetti has decided to dust off Obama’s signature strategy.

Kevin Wang, 13, Klein Wang, Harvey Ma and Feng Xue listen to a speech by Garcetti during his visit with the Iowa Asian & Latino Coalition PAC in in Des Moines on April 13. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

*****

There was, for one thing, the focus on biography — the effort to recast his own story as America’s story, writ small. On paper, Barack Hussein Obama once seemed like an alien life form: half-black, half white, with an absentee Kenyan father, a globetrotting anthropologist mother, a childhood spent in Hawaii and Indonesia, and a name that evoked the despised leaders of both Iraq and al-Qaida. Garcetti is equally exotic: a half-Latino, half-Jewish Rhodes Scholar with a penchant for composing jazz on his office piano and a vibe uncannily in tune with L.A.’s current idea of itself — cool, elite, tech-savvy, liberal, multicultural and aesthetically pleasing.

In Iowa, Garcetti bypassed the less useful aspects of his narrative — again, much like Obama. He never mentioned his dad, former L.A. district attorney and O.J. Simpson prosecutor Gil Garcetti, or his mom, a wealthy philanthropist from the prominent Roth clothing family; he never mentioned jamming with Moby, or salsa-dancing with Salma Hayek at the North Pole, or how he’s perhaps the only elected official in America whose own home, a meticulously renovated 1950s post-and-beam with solar panels and walls of glass, once appeared in Dwell magazine.

Instead, Garcetti focused on his Mexican-American paternal grandparents, whose immigrant success story he framed as a rebuke to the Trump administration’s restrictionist agenda. As he addressed several dozen Asian and Latino activists in Des Moines, Garcetti explained how his grandfather Sal “was what we call a ‘Dreamer’ before that term was ever used”; how Sal was born in the Mexican state of Chihuahua; how his grandfather’s own father had died in the Mexican Revolution; how, as an infant, his mother carried him north across the border, all the way to California; how he met Garcetti’s grandmother, a meatpacker, in Los Angeles; how he volunteered to fight in World War II, even though he wasn’t a citizen, all because “the country he loved needed him”; how he and his wife “saved their pennies” after the war and eventually opened a barbershop.

Garcetti speaks with members of the Iowa Asian & Latino Coalition PAC in Des Moines on April 13. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

“Today their grandson is the mayor of the largest city in the largest state in this nation because America said, ‘You belong,’” Garcetti added in Davenport. “We all have that story.”

Another challenge Obama confronted in 2008 was his resume, which was shorter, when he announced, than any previous president’s: three terms in the Illinois Legislature, a year or so in the U.S. Senate. Garcetti has a similar handicap. No mayor in U.S. history has ever ascended directly from City Hall to the White House, and only one — New York’s DeWitt Clinton, way back in 1812 — has even secured his party’s presidential nomination.

So Garcetti spent his time in Iowa doing precisely what Obama once did: spinning his unconventional CV as a plus, not a minus — the mark of an outsider with the skills and experience to cure what ails Washington, D.C. Obama identified the problem as partisanship ­— our “broken politics.” For Garcetti, the issue today is incompetence.

“We have leadership that isn’t just indecent or divisive,” he said in Des Moines. “It’s ineffective. It’s just not getting the job done.”

Rather than assail Trump directly, Garcetti again and again defined the coming presidential contest as a choice between Trump’s Washington, where “division” and “distraction” reign, and the alternative he claims to embody: the rest of America, where mayors like him dirty their hands and actually work to improve people’s lives.

“We’ve got an egoist in the White House who thinks that greatness in this country will flow out of him,” Garcetti told me at Mullets. “That’s BS. It comes from us — from our local communities.”

A crowd listens to Garcetti speak at a Polk County Democratic Party event at Cooney’s Tavern in Des Moines, Iowa, on April 14. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

For both Obama and Garcetti, the final point was perhaps the most important: I may not come from here — and you may not agree with me on everything — but deep down, we’re all the same. The problem for Garcetti is that a lot has changed since 2008, and today’s Democratic Party seems more inclined to divide and conquer — along lines of identity, ideology and class — than Obama’s party ever did.

Still, Garcetti emphasized unity at every turn.

When talk turned to Los Angeles, with its exotic landscape of palm trees and Kardashians, he reminded listeners that the USS Iowa is stationed there as a maritime museum and that Long Beach, largely settled by Midwestern transplants, was once called “Iowa by the Sea.”

“I think that Iowa and Los Angeles have a ton in common,” Garcetti told the six dozen Polk County Democrats who huddled inside Cooney’s on a drizzly Saturday morning.

When it was time to order food with the tattooed firefighters at Mullets, the mayor made sure to select a unifying dish. “In L.A., we have breakfast burritos,” he announced. “This is great!”

Making small talk beneath wall-to-wall tchotchkes — old license plates, Iowa sports pennants, framed photos of be-mulleted celebrities like Lionel Richie and Chuck Norris — he recounted his most salt-of-the-earth moment as mayor. “So when the Kings won the Stanley Cup in 2014, I was there,” he told a pair of bald, burly firemen. “And I got up with a beer in my hand and said, ‘So there are two cardinal rules of politics: never swear and never have your picture taken holding a drink. But this is a big fucking day!’”

Garcetti eats breakfast with Iowa Professional Fire Fighters members James Gillespie and Doug Neys at Mullets restaurant in Des Moines on April 14. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

After Garcetti left Cooney’s, his security detail took a 110-mile detour to the Elmwood Cemetery in Waterloo, where he braved hail and high winds to pose for a photo next to the marbled-granite headstone of his wife’s great-grandparents. There were no voters present to observe Garcetti FaceTiming with his wife, Amy Wakeland, or knocking on the nearby door of her grandparents’ first home — just three reporters who had been previously informed of the jaunt.

But when Garcetti spoke later that night in Davenport to a crowd of hundreds of influential Scott County Democrats, he did not forget to mention it.

“I just came earlier today from Waterloo, where my wife’s family is from,” he said. “I saw the name of her granduncle who never made it back from World War II — who left his life on the fields of war, sacrificing for our freedoms.”

“I know I’m a long way from Los Angeles,” Garcetti continued. “But I’m here because what happens here in Iowa affects me in Los Angeles. And what happens in Los Angeles affects you here in Iowa. I still believe that in this room, we are one Democratic family — and outside these doors, we are one American family.”

With that, the Democrats of Davenport applauded, politely.

Garcetti meets with Democrats during the Scott County Democrats Red, White and Blue Gala in Davenport, Iowa, on April 14. Garcetti was joined by California Rep. Eric Swalwell, a native Iowan who may also be considering a 2020 presidential bid. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

*****

If Garcetti does decide to run, the key question will be whether this kind of polite, uplifting rhetoric is enough — both for Democrats hell-bent on resistance and a national debate deformed by Trump’s trash talk.

Earlier that morning at Mullets, I asked the mayor what would stop Republicans from caricaturing him as an elite Hollywood liberal.

“Nothing,” he said.

“But how would you combat it?” I wondered.

“Very easily,” he replied. “Trump’s a billionaire. It’s difficult for a billionaire to call other people ‘elitist.’ An Ivy League billionaire from Manhattan who’s famous because of his time in Hollywood …”

Garcetti trailed off. I started to ask another question, but suddenly, he realized he wasn’t done.

“… dating models and porn stars,” he added with a laugh. “Can I say that too?”

Garcetti seemed pleased with his answer — even though he had just described what many Trump voters like best about Trump.

A similar thing happened when I asked whether Democrats need to run on big, easy-to-understand, Bernie-Sanders-style ideas in the wake of Clinton’s detailed-yet-defeated campaign.

“Absolutely,” Garcetti said. “There’s all sorts of big ideas.”

Garcetti signs a form before speaking at a Polk County Democrats event in Des Moines, Iowa, on April 14. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

After five years in charge of Los Angeles, Garcetti has real accomplishments to tout (along with some real liabilities, including L.A.’s rising homeless population, which he is trying to address.) He proceeded to rattle off a few of the former. He’s raised the minimum wage to $15 an hour. He’s made community college and trade school free for full-time students. He’s created 30,000 new green jobs. He’s spearheaded some of the largest infrastructure projects in the county. These are all programs, he added, that “he’d like to do around the county.”

They are also programs that Clinton proposed in 2016.

Regardless, Garcetti received warm reviews throughout Iowa last week.

“He seems to be really down-to-earth and easy to talk to,” said Joe Van Haalen, president of the Des Moines firefighters union. “I think people are getting more interested in smaller-time politicians — people like mayors who have day-to-day contact, unlike those in the national spotlight who are so far removed.”

“He’s got some of the Obama buzz,” added Sean Bagniewski, chair of the Polk County Democrats. “Somebody who is coming out of nowhere, but is dynamic, has a great American story and has the ability to cross a bunch of different lines within the Democratic Party and with independent voters.”

Even so, I couldn’t help but wonder if that Obama buzz will continue to cut through in today’s noisier political arena — particularly after the rest of the Democratic cavalry joins Garcetti on the trail.

Garcetti receives a shirt from the Iowa clothing company Raygun that reads, “ Iowa! for Some Reason, You Have to Come Here to Be President ” during the Scott County Democrats Red, White and Blue Gala in Davenport, Iowa, on April 14. (Photo: KC McGinnis for Yahoo News) More

As he wandered through the East Village in Des Moines Friday, the mayor encountered a boutique called Raygun, which is well-known, in Iowa and beyond, for its wryly humorous T-shirts, tank tops, coasters and coozies. He decided to pop in and buy a few souvenirs for his wife and daughter. With a flock of reporters and photographers in tow, the visit immediately took on a kind of meta-significance. Was Garcetti simply shopping for gifts? Or was he trying to make a statement? Navigating around racks of garments screenprinted with pointed, progressive slogans, it was easy to imagine what Elizabeth Warren might purchase (“Nevertheless She Persisted”). Or Cory Booker (“Racial Justice Now”). Or Bernie Sanders (“Totally Unhinged Liberal”).

So what did Garcetti buy? “Midwest: Hell Yes” for his wife and “I Was a Girl Scout Before It Was Radical” for his daughter.

“People really need to feel you,” Garcetti explained later, when I asked what he learned about politics when he saw Obama campaign in Iowa. “Authenticity is even more important than your positions. I think Obama came out of nowhere because people trusted him. And he won that trust over one conversation at a time, one speech at a time. It wasn’t a performance. It was an opening up of who he was.”

At the end of each event last week — each conversation — Garcetti promised that he would “be back.” No doubt he will continue the process of “opening up” who he is, if and when he returns. What remains to be seen is whether, in the age of Trump, America is still open to someone like him.

_____

Read more from Yahoo News:Ted Cruz wrote an essay for Time magazine’s “100 Most Influential People of 2018” issue praising President Trump as “a flash-bang grenade thrown into Washington by the forgotten men and women of America.”

According to the Texas senator, the chaotic nature of Trump’s first year in office is “not a bug but a feature.”

“The same cultural safe spaces that blinkered coastal elites to candidate Trump’s popularity have rendered them blind to President Trump’s achievements on behalf of ordinary Americans,” Cruz writes in the issue, which hits newsstands Friday. “While pundits obsessed over tweets, he worked with Congress to cut taxes for struggling families. While wealthy celebrities announced that they would flee the country, he fought to bring back jobs and industries to our shores. While talking heads predicted Armageddon, President Trump’s strong stand against North Korea put Kim Jong Un back on his heels.”

“President Trump is doing what he was elected to do: disrupt the status quo,” Cruz adds. “That scares the heck out of those who have controlled Washington for decades, but for millions of Americans, their confusion is great fun to watch.”

It wasn’t always “great fun” for Cruz. During the Republican primary, Trump frequently referred to his GOP opponent as “Lyin’ Ted,” insulted his wife and suggested that Cruz’s father was involved in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, which led to this epic rant to reporters at a campaign stop in Indiana in May 2016:

This man is a pathological liar. He doesn’t know the difference between truth and lies. He lies practically every word that comes out of his mouth. And in a pattern that I think is straight out of a psychology textbook, his response is to accuse everyone else of lying. He accuses everybody on that debate stage of lying. And it’s simply a mindless yell. Whatever he does, he accuses everyone else of doing. The man cannot tell the truth, but he combines it with being a narcissist. A narcissist at a level I don’t think this country has ever seen. Donald Trump is such a narcissist that Barack Obama looks at him and goes, “Dude, what’s your problem?” Everything in Donald’s world is about Donald. And he combines being a pathological liar — and I say pathological because I actually think Donald, if you hooked him up to a lie detector test, he could say one thing in the morning, one thing at noon and one thing in the evening, all contradictory, and he’d pass the lie detector test each time. Whatever lie he’s telling, at that minute he believes it.

The man is utterly amoral. Morality does not exist for him. It’s why he went after Heidi directly and smeared my wife, attacked her. Apparently she’s not pretty enough for Donald Trump. I may be biased, but I think if he’s making that allegation, he’s also legally blind.

Every one of us knew bullies in elementary school. Bullies don’t come from strength, bullies come from weakness. Bullies come from a deep, yawning cave of insecurity. There is a reason Donald builds giant buildings and puts his name on them everywhere he goes. And I will say there are millions of people in this country who are angry. They’re angry at Washington. They’re angry at politicians who have lied to them. I understand that anger. I share that anger. And Donald is cynically exploiting that anger. And he is lying to his supporters. Donald will betray his supporters on every issue.

If you care about immigration, Donald is laughing at you. And he’s telling the moneyed elites he doesn’t believe what he’s saying. He’s not going to build a wall. That’s what he told the New York Times. He will betray you on every issue across the board.

And his strategy of being a bully in particular is directed at women. Donald has a real problem with women. He is proud of being a serial philanderer. … He describes his own battles with venereal diseases as his own personal Vietnam

At the 2016 Republican National Convention, Cruz was booed when he gave a speech while declining to endorse Trump, his party’s nominee.

Cruz eventually caved, endorsing Trump two months before the election and visiting a phone bank at the Republican Party headquarters in Fort Worth, Texas, to encourage potential GOP voters to come out and vote.Join Yahoo News Editor in Chief, Daniel Klaidman, and Chief Investigative Correspondent Michael Isikoff for a special live video taping of Skullduggery.

The weekly podcast offers a deep dive into the high-stakes investigation into Russia’s effort to subvert the 2016 election and allegations of collusion by the Donald Trump presidential campaign.

On the eve of the White House Correspondents’ Dinner, the podcast will host a special roundtable discussion of the Russia scandal and the media.

The live event on Friday, April 27, 2018, begins at 9 a.m. ET, and will be streamed here.WASHINGTON — RZA, the spiritual leader of the Wu-Tang Clan, got a kick out of seeing two of his rap colleagues meet former FBI Director James Comey on Tuesday.

Wu-Tang Clan members Ghostface Killah and Method Man ran into Comey backstage at “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.” Comey was there to promote his book, “A Higher Loyalty,” which was released on Tuesday and details his experience being fired by President Trump in May 2017. Ghostface Killah posted a photo on Instagram along with a caption implying Comey was helping the rap group get back the sole copy of their album “Once Upon a Time in Shaolin,” which is currently in federal custody.

Yahoo News spoke to RZA on Wednesday night and asked if his colleagues talked with him about their meeting with Comey and whether the ex-FBI director gave them any advice about getting the album back from the government. He dodged the question and simply said he was amused by the situation. RZA also implied that Method Man, a well-known marijuana enthusiast, was under the influence when he posed with Comey.

“That was a funny thing on Colbert last night,” RZA said of the Wu-Tang Clan members meeting with Comey, adding, “Meth ate the cookie.”

Wu-Tang Clan only released one copy of “Once Upon A Time in Shaolin” in 2015. It was purchased by infamous pharmaceutical entrepreneur Martin Shkreli for $2 million at an auction. A federal court seized the sole copy of the album in March after Shkreli was convicted of securities fraud. Shkreli was sentenced to seven years in federal prison and the future of the record is unclear.

RZA was in the nation’s capital for a screening of the classic kung fu film “The 36th Chamber of Shaolin.” He is currently traveling the country performing a live score along with showings of the movie.

Yahoo News also asked RZA if he’d want to ask President Trump to intervene and release the album. He was noncommittal.

“Well, we’re in D.C. right now, boy,” RZA said.

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders did not immediately respond to an email asking whether Trump would be interested in releasing the album. Neglected for now, but it’s got to be accepted. Life is hectic.

Read more from Yahoo News:

(Cover photo credit: Getty Images)By Brian Prowse-Gany and Joyzel Acevedo

In the middle of an empty Manhattan church on a Wednesday afternoon sits Rev. Juan Carlos Ruíz, adjusting his priest collar. Outside, people cross the street to and from Central Park. Although it is April, they are still dressed in winter coats.

Upstairs in a room inside the church, Aura Hernández plays with her toddler daughter. Every so often, you can hear coos and happy yells echoing off the church’s old walls.

“We have a whole apparatus that criminalizes people,” the reverend says. “That sees people not as people, but as a threat.”

“So we have many, many people who are living in the shadows.”

Aura Hernández is one of those people. An undocumented immigrant mother of two, she fled violence and an abusive relationship in her native Guatemala for a better life in the United States. She was issued a final deportation order for March 1, and, fearful of being separated from her U.S.-born children, she sought help at a free legal clinic hosted by Rev. Ruíz’s organization, the New Sanctuary Coalition. A few weeks later, she moved to a church with her youngest child — and hasn’t stepped outside since.

In this week’s episode of Yahoo News’ “Unfiltered,” Rev. Ruíz shows us the daily struggles facing undocumented immigrants in America, including a mother who has taken to living in a church for fear of being deported.

The New Sanctuary Coalition, a network founded by Ruíz and other religious leaders, is striving to revitalize the sanctuary campaign of the 1980s: The original movement had enlisted churches to transport, house and hide refugees fleeing to the U.S. from the civil wars in El Salvador and Guatemala.

“We work with families and communities who are facing deportation,” Rev. Ruíz explains. New Sanctuary provides legal resources and support to immigrants in their fight for legal status, offering free weekly legal clinics where they can review their paperwork, attend group meetings outlining the legalization process, and even a program in which immigrants are paired with volunteers who accompany them to their mandatory check-ins with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE.

They also work to provide sanctuary spaces to undocumented immigrants who are in immediate danger of being deported.

“The government talks about sensitive spaces. Places where la migra, ICE, cannot violate. And those sensitive spaces are schools, clinics, hospitals … and churches.”

Taking shelter at those locations, however, does not mean the individual is immune to deportation.

“Here in New York we have seen ICE violating some of the schools. We have seen them violating some of the hospitals,” says Rev. Ruíz. “More and more, we are being accustomed to seeing weaponized people going into our homes, into our communities and snatching and kidnapping people away. Without any defense.”

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers arrest an undocumented Mexican immigrant in Brooklyn, New York. (Photo: John Moore/Getty Images) More

“These are not people that came here yesterday: They’ve been with us for the last four decades. Forty years. And they are still checking in. … It is like the parole system. You have to be under supervision.”

There are approximately 2.3 million immigrants checking in with immigration agencies nationwide, including DACA recipients and those with temporary protected status. “We talk about these 2.3 million people being the low-hanging fruit, which the administration is going after.”

“They have their names. They have their family, friends. They know where they work. They know where they go to school.”

Rev. Ruíz says that this constant fear of deportation causes many people to say, “I cannot go through this humiliation. I cannot put my family in such uncertainty … that my kids drop out of school because they don’t want to leave my side.” The end result is that they sometimes make the difficult decision to “self-deport” to their home country.WASHINGTON (AP) — In a series of startlingly candid conversations, President Donald Trump told former FBI Director James Comey that he had serious concerns about the judgment of a top adviser, asked about the possibility of jailing journalists and described a boast from Vladimir Putin about Russian prostitutes, according to Comey's notes of the talks obtained by The Associated Press on Thursday night.

The 15 pages of documents contain new details about a series of interactions with Trump that Comey found so unnerving that he chose to document them in writing. Those seven encounters in the weeks and months before Comey's May 2017 firing include a Trump Tower discussion about allegations involving Trump and prostitutes in Moscow; a White House dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty; and a private Oval Office discussion where the ex-FBI head says the president asked him to end an investigation into Michael Flynn, the former White House national security adviser.

The documents had been eagerly anticipated since their existence was first revealed last year, especially since Comey's interactions with Trump are a critical part of special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into whether the president sought to obstruct justice. Late Thursday night, Trump tweeted that the memos "show clearly that there was NO COLLUSION and NO OBSTRUCTION."

The president also accused Comey of leaking classified information. The memos obtained by the AP were unclassified, though some portions were blacked out as classified. Details from Comey's memos reported in news stories last year appear to come from the unclassified portions.

In explaining the purpose of creating the memos, which have been provided to Mueller, Comey has said he "knew there might come a day when I would need a record of what had happened" to defend not only himself but the FBI as well.

The memos cover the first three months of the Trump administration, a period of upheaval marked by staff turnover, a cascade of damaging headlines and revelations of an FBI investigation into potential ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. The documents reflect Trump's uneasiness about that investigation, though not always in ways that Comey seemed to anticipate.

In a February 2017 conversation, for instance, Trump told Comey how Putin told him, "we have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world" even as the president adamantly, and repeatedly, distanced himself from a salacious allegation concerning him and prostitutes in Moscow, according to one memo.

In another memo, Comey recounts how Trump at a private White House dinner pointed his fingers at his head and complained that Flynn, his embattled national security adviser, "has serious judgment issues." The president blamed Flynn for failing to alert him promptly to a congratulatory call from a world leader, causing a delay for Trump in returning a message to an official whose name is redacted in the documents.

"I did not comment at any point during this topic and there was no mention or acknowledgment of any FBI interest in or contact with General Flynn," Comey wrote.

By that point, the FBI had already interviewed Flynn about his contacts with the Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, and the Justice Department had already warned White House officials that they were concerned Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail.

Flynn was fired Feb. 13, 2017, after White House officials said he had misled them about his Russian contacts during the transition period by saying that he had not discussed sanctions. The following day, according to a separate memo, Comey says Trump cleared the Oval Office of other officials, encouraged him to let go of the investigation into Flynn and called him a good guy. Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and is now cooperating with Mueller's investigation.

The memos reveal that days before Flynn's firing, then-White House chief of staff Reince Priebus asked Comey if Flynn's communications were being monitored under a secret surveillance warrant.

"Do you have a FISA order on Mike Flynn?" Priebus asked Comey, according to the memos, referring to an order under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.

Comey said he "paused for a few seconds and then said that I would answer here, but that this illustrated the kind of question that had to be asked and answered through established channels."Already a dozen conservative cities and counties have stood against California's sanctuary law, which extends protections to undocumented immigrants.

Watch TV shows, movies and more on Yahoo View.

About Newsy

Newsy: Newsy filters out the hype to deliver a fresh take on U.S. and world news with additional perspective and analysis. See More

Check out more stuff on Yahoo ViewAlready a dozen conservative cities and counties have stood against California's sanctuary law, which extends protections to undocumented immigrants.

Watch TV shows, movies and more on Yahoo View.

About Newsy

Newsy: Newsy filters out the hype to deliver a fresh take on U.S. and world news with additional perspective and analysis. See More

Check out more stuff on Yahoo ViewPresident Donald Trump boasted Wednesday about taking a tough stance on Russia despite backing off on issuing new sanctions over its support of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad.

“There’s been nobody tougher on Russia than President Donald Trump,” he said. “With the media, no matter what I did, it’s never tough enough, because that’s their narrative. But Russia will tell you, there’s been nobody tougher than Donald Trump.”

Critics on Twitter immediately let Trump know just what they thought of his assertion:

Yes, let's ask Russia if Trump has been tough on them. I'm sure they'll play it straight. — Kevin M. Kruse (@KevinMKruse) April 18, 2018

I'm sure they will. — John Sipher (@john_sipher) April 19, 2018

Trump is so RIGHT on this one pic.twitter.com/ZTBeSagumX — Ignite (@IgnitedTrueWord) April 18, 2018

Donald Trump has issued tougher sanctions on Colin Kaepernick than he has on Russia. — Born Miserable (@bornmiserable) April 19, 2018

And if you can’t trust fascist dictator Vladimir Putin’s.... — Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) April 19, 2018

“THERE’S BEEN NOBODY TOUGHER ON RUSSIA THAN PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP!” pic.twitter.com/V2bbLZaIoe — Leah McElrath (@leahmcelrath) April 18, 2018

Shouted a question at the end about Russia sanctions. Trump said he’s been tougher on Russia than any US President. Reagan and Kennedy would disagree. — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) April 18, 2018

“.... and Vlad told me I should say that!” — TheDudeAbides (@DudeAbides2017) April 18, 2018

Ha ha lol ha ha lol ha



Did Trump just say there's nobody tougher on Russian then him. He warned Russia who's going to attack Syria he pulled back sanctions we definitely were going to enact. pic.twitter.com/Q3VBJMmHuX — John / Dems 2018 (@aparadox12) April 18, 2018

You know who’s been tougher on Russia than Trump—-Vladimir Putin. — Pablo Kutter (@Mossimo77) April 18, 2018

FUN FACT: No white president in the past nine and a half years has been tougher on Russia than Trump. — Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) April 18, 2018

"NO ONE has been tougher on Russia than Donald Trump."



- Donald Trump pic.twitter.com/1OxQaV7pYr — Kilohana (@KilohanaKona) April 19, 2018

Trump announced that there won’t be new sanctions after all against Russia for backing the chemical attack by Syria on its own citizens. Trump would have said more, but his mouth was too busy kissing Vladimir’s ass. — George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) April 18, 2018

Trump again says "there has been nobody tougher than me" on Russia... just days after he rejected his own administration's plan to impose sanctions on Russia for their actions in Syria. — Caroline O. (@RVAwonk) April 18, 2018

Trump Again Said “There has been nobody tougher on Russia than Him



Trump is the same Person Who



Twice canceled sanctions on Russia



Never said a bad word about Putin



Everyone he knows has had contact with Russia



Praised Putin over Obamapic.twitter.com/Hz4w4CPn4v — Janice (@Janice_Resist) April 19, 2018

I'm sure that's EXACTLY what Russia will tell us since #Trump coordinates his strategy with Putin before he does his own Cabinet.#Resist#TrumpRussia#Collusion — On The Case Man (@OnTheCaseMan) April 18, 2018

Trump said that nobody has been tougher on Russia than him. If this is him being "tough" then I'd really hate to see him be "weak." — ️Allie Wen️ (@alliewen21) April 19, 2018

"There has been nobody tougher on Russia than President Donald Trump."



Trump actually just said that. In a lifetime full of pathological lying, this whopper is among his worst lies ever.pic.twitter.com/b7eMAbZnlE — Adam Best (@adamcbest) April 18, 2018

Video: Trump Butts Heads With White House on Russia Strategy

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.President Donald Trump boasted Wednesday about taking a tough stance on Russia despite backing off on issuing new sanctions over its support of Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad.

“There’s been nobody tougher on Russia than President Donald Trump,” he said. “With the media, no matter what I did, it’s never tough enough, because that’s their narrative. But Russia will tell you, there’s been nobody tougher than Donald Trump.”

Critics on Twitter immediately let Trump know just what they thought of his assertion:

Yes, let's ask Russia if Trump has been tough on them. I'm sure they'll play it straight. — Kevin M. Kruse (@KevinMKruse) April 18, 2018

I'm sure they will. — John Sipher (@john_sipher) April 19, 2018

Trump is so RIGHT on this one pic.twitter.com/ZTBeSagumX — Ignite (@IgnitedTrueWord) April 18, 2018

Donald Trump has issued tougher sanctions on Colin Kaepernick than he has on Russia. — Born Miserable (@bornmiserable) April 19, 2018

And if you can’t trust fascist dictator Vladimir Putin’s.... — Molly Jong-Fast (@MollyJongFast) April 19, 2018

“THERE’S BEEN NOBODY TOUGHER ON RUSSIA THAN PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP!” pic.twitter.com/V2bbLZaIoe — Leah McElrath (@leahmcelrath) April 18, 2018

Shouted a question at the end about Russia sanctions. Trump said he’s been tougher on Russia than any US President. Reagan and Kennedy would disagree. — Jim Acosta (@Acosta) April 18, 2018

“.... and Vlad told me I should say that!” — TheDudeAbides (@DudeAbides2017) April 18, 2018

Ha ha lol ha ha lol ha



Did Trump just say there's nobody tougher on Russian then him. He warned Russia who's going to attack Syria he pulled back sanctions we definitely were going to enact. pic.twitter.com/Q3VBJMmHuX — John / Dems 2018 (@aparadox12) April 18, 2018

You know who’s been tougher on Russia than Trump—-Vladimir Putin. — Pablo Kutter (@Mossimo77) April 18, 2018

FUN FACT: No white president in the past nine and a half years has been tougher on Russia than Trump. — Tea Pain (@TeaPainUSA) April 18, 2018

"NO ONE has been tougher on Russia than Donald Trump."



- Donald Trump pic.twitter.com/1OxQaV7pYr — Kilohana (@KilohanaKona) April 19, 2018

Trump announced that there won’t be new sanctions after all against Russia for backing the chemical attack by Syria on its own citizens. Trump would have said more, but his mouth was too busy kissing Vladimir’s ass. — George Takei (@GeorgeTakei) April 18, 2018

Trump again says "there has been nobody tougher than me" on Russia... just days after he rejected his own administration's plan to impose sanctions on Russia for their actions in Syria. — Caroline O. (@RVAwonk) April 18, 2018

Trump Again Said “There has been nobody tougher on Russia than Him



Trump is the same Person Who



Twice canceled sanctions on Russia



Never said a bad word about Putin



Everyone he knows has had contact with Russia



Praised Putin over Obamapic.twitter.com/Hz4w4CPn4v — Janice (@Janice_Resist) April 19, 2018

I'm sure that's EXACTLY what Russia will tell us since #Trump coordinates his strategy with Putin before he does his own Cabinet.#Resist#TrumpRussia#Collusion — On The Case Man (@OnTheCaseMan) April 18, 2018

Trump said that nobody has been tougher on Russia than him. If this is him being "tough" then I'd really hate to see him be "weak." — ️Allie Wen️ (@alliewen21) April 19, 2018

"There has been nobody tougher on Russia than President Donald Trump."



Trump actually just said that. In a lifetime full of pathological lying, this whopper is among his worst lies ever.pic.twitter.com/b7eMAbZnlE — Adam Best (@adamcbest) April 18, 2018

Video: Trump Butts Heads With White House on Russia Strategy

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.President Donald Trump saluted Barbara Bush during remarks alongside Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe Wednesday, going off script to state that he would never beat the length of her marriage to former President George H.W. Bush.

“Melania and I send our prayers to Barbara’s husband of 73 years,” he said in tribute to the former first lady who died at the age of 92 Tuesday, before adding “I’ll never beat that record.”

Trump is currently on his third marriage, having wed current wife Melania in 2005. The current first lady announced Wednesday that she planned to attend Bush’s funeral in Houston on Saturday. Is not yet known whether the president will attend.

Trending: Moscow’s Objective in the Middle East: Replace the United States | Opinion

"For decades Barbara was a titan in American life,” Trump added of Bush. “Her strength and toughness really embodied the spirit of our country, and her warmth and devotion earned the admiration of an entire nation and indeed the entire world.”

GettyImages-947929202 More

MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekPresident Donald Trump saluted Barbara Bush during remarks alongside Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe Wednesday, going off script to state that he would never beat the length of her marriage to former President George H.W. Bush.

“Melania and I send our prayers to Barbara’s husband of 73 years,” he said in tribute to the former first lady who died at the age of 92 Tuesday, before adding “I’ll never beat that record.”

Trump is currently on his third marriage, having wed current wife Melania in 2005. The current first lady announced Wednesday that she planned to attend Bush’s funeral in Houston on Saturday. Is not yet known whether the president will attend.

Trending: Moscow’s Objective in the Middle East: Replace the United States | Opinion

"For decades Barbara was a titan in American life,” Trump added of Bush. “Her strength and toughness really embodied the spirit of our country, and her warmth and devotion earned the admiration of an entire nation and indeed the entire world.”

GettyImages-947929202 More

MANDEL NGAN/AFP/Getty Images

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekIn an interview with Fox News on Tuesday, Mitch McConnell was asked if he plans to bring to the Senate floor a bipartisan bill that would statutorily prohibit President Trump from terminating special counsel Robert Mueller, the man charged with investigating him. McConnell, who at this point has been analogized to every comic book supervillain and every known species of turtle, acted as if this were the most ridiculous proposition he'd ever heard. "That's not necessary," he scoffed, blinking furiously. "I don't think the the president is going to do that. And just as a practical matter, even if we passed it, why would he sign it?"

There are good reasons for a legislative body to pass a bill despite the threat of a veto, if it were so inclined. It could, for example, do so to send a message about their view on the limits of presidential power. It could use the bill to make its case to voters about what the law should be, and leave it to the president to deal with the political fallout associated with using the veto power in such a blatantly self-interested manner. McConnell knows these things, but still stared helplessly at Neil Cavuto as if he were physically shackled to the chair in which he sat. "I'm the one who decides what we take to the floor. That's my responsibility as the majority leader," he declared. "We will not be having this on the floor of the Senate."

McConnell's position—that he doesn't believe Trump will fire Mueller, and that therefore taking action to prevent it would be bad—is a facially absurd one, roughly akin to removing the seat belts from your cab driver's car because you are confident in his abilities behind the wheel. But the only thing about which Mitch McConnell has ever cared is consolidating power in his Republican Party. It doesn't matter to him who the president is, or what they do in the Oval Office, as long as they rubber-stamp the bills he places on their desk. If the answer to those questions is, respectively, "a racist reality TV star" and "obstruct justice with the tacit approval of a GOP-controlled legislature," he can work with that.

Watch:

Trump is Finished

Political pragmatism, however, isn't the only thing motivating this refusal to head off a constitutional crisis. Remember 2016, when McConnell refused to give Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland the courtesy of a hearing, asserting without a shred of evidence that the next president should be allowed to fill that vacancy? At the time, this looked like a wild, Hail Mary-attempt to prevent President Obama from fulfilling his constitutional duties, and many idiots predicted that offering such a blatantly bad-faith argument would prompt Americans to punish the GOP at the polls. McConnell, though, saw preserving the Court's ideological balance as a cause around which his fractured-at-the-time party could rally. Even if that effort hadn't proved as successful as it did, the stakes were too high for him to do anything else.

The same is true today. If McConnell honestly believed that this bill isn't "necessary" because Trump won't fire Mueller, then at the very least, there would be no harm in allowing the Senate to vote on it. But he knows that Trump might do it, both because the investigation seems to be penetrating the president's inner circle, and also because the president lies all the time. Republicans plan to use the Russia probe and the prospect of impeachment to motivate the base to turn out, and for the sake of his party's agenda, McConnell has to preserve Trump's power to act in the meantime.

The majority leader is also warily keeping tabs on the usual gaggle of Roy Moore-esque goons who, if they were to win their primaries, could threaten the GOP's chances of winning toss-up seats in the general election. Democrats are going to attack McConnell and the Republican Party no matter what, of course. But if at this critical juncture he were to bring to the floor a bill that limits Trump's ability to fight back against Sean Hannity's "Mueller crime family", far-right voices could excoriate him for this capitulation, too. Doing something that could imperil the presidency in what may be the final eight months of unified Republican government is a risk that he cannot take.

Mitch McConnell knows that his party is in danger in November. His refusal to protect Robert Mueller is another high-risk, high-reward bet that the voters who applaud him for this stunt will outnumber those who are disgusted by it. He was right once. He might not be as lucky this time around.In an interview with Fox News on Tuesday, Mitch McConnell was asked if he plans to bring to the Senate floor a bipartisan bill that would statutorily prohibit President Trump from terminating special counsel Robert Mueller, the man charged with investigating him. McConnell, who at this point has been analogized to every comic book supervillain and every known species of turtle, acted as if this were the most ridiculous proposition he'd ever heard. "That's not necessary," he scoffed, blinking furiously. "I don't think the the president is going to do that. And just as a practical matter, even if we passed it, why would he sign it?"

There are good reasons for a legislative body to pass a bill despite the threat of a veto, if it were so inclined. It could, for example, do so to send a message about their view on the limits of presidential power. It could use the bill to make its case to voters about what the law should be, and leave it to the president to deal with the political fallout associated with using the veto power in such a blatantly self-interested manner. McConnell knows these things, but still stared helplessly at Neil Cavuto as if he were physically shackled to the chair in which he sat. "I'm the one who decides what we take to the floor. That's my responsibility as the majority leader," he declared. "We will not be having this on the floor of the Senate."

McConnell's position—that he doesn't believe Trump will fire Mueller, and that therefore taking action to prevent it would be bad—is a facially absurd one, roughly akin to removing the seat belts from your cab driver's car because you are confident in his abilities behind the wheel. But the only thing about which Mitch McConnell has ever cared is consolidating power in his Republican Party. It doesn't matter to him who the president is, or what they do in the Oval Office, as long as they rubber-stamp the bills he places on their desk. If the answer to those questions is, respectively, "a racist reality TV star" and "obstruct justice with the tacit approval of a GOP-controlled legislature," he can work with that.

Watch:

Trump is Finished

Political pragmatism, however, isn't the only thing motivating this refusal to head off a constitutional crisis. Remember 2016, when McConnell refused to give Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland the courtesy of a hearing, asserting without a shred of evidence that the next president should be allowed to fill that vacancy? At the time, this looked like a wild, Hail Mary-attempt to prevent President Obama from fulfilling his constitutional duties, and many idiots predicted that offering such a blatantly bad-faith argument would prompt Americans to punish the GOP at the polls. McConnell, though, saw preserving the Court's ideological balance as a cause around which his fractured-at-the-time party could rally. Even if that effort hadn't proved as successful as it did, the stakes were too high for him to do anything else.

The same is true today. If McConnell honestly believed that this bill isn't "necessary" because Trump won't fire Mueller, then at the very least, there would be no harm in allowing the Senate to vote on it. But he knows that Trump might do it, both because the investigation seems to be penetrating the president's inner circle, and also because the president lies all the time. Republicans plan to use the Russia probe and the prospect of impeachment to motivate the base to turn out, and for the sake of his party's agenda, McConnell has to preserve Trump's power to act in the meantime.

The majority leader is also warily keeping tabs on the usual gaggle of Roy Moore-esque goons who, if they were to win their primaries, could threaten the GOP's chances of winning toss-up seats in the general election. Democrats are going to attack McConnell and the Republican Party no matter what, of course. But if at this critical juncture he were to bring to the floor a bill that limits Trump's ability to fight back against Sean Hannity's "Mueller crime family", far-right voices could excoriate him for this capitulation, too. Doing something that could imperil the presidency in what may be the final eight months of unified Republican government is a risk that he cannot take.

Mitch McConnell knows that his party is in danger in November. His refusal to protect Robert Mueller is another high-risk, high-reward bet that the voters who applaud him for this stunt will outnumber those who are disgusted by it. He was right once. He might not be as lucky this time around.Former Green Bay running back Ahman Green was sentenced to 18 months of probation on Thursday after an incident with his daughter. (J. Meric/Getty Images)

Former NFL running back Ahman Green was found guilty of disorderly conduct and criminal damage to property after entering a plea in court on Thursday in Wisconsin, and was sentenced to 18 months on probation.

Green entered an Alford plea — similar to a no-contest plea in an effort to avoid a trial while maintaining his innocence.

The original incident took place on June 26, 2017, when Green was accused of pushing his then 15-year-old daughter and hitting her in the head when she refused to wash the dishes.

Green said that “parental discipline” was the reason behind the altercation. A criminal complaint said his daughter told police that she had been fighting with her father all day before the assault. It also said that Green told police that “he might have thrown the girl to the ground, tearing her shirt, and that he slapped her head and may have hit her glasses, causing an injury to her eye,” the Green Bay Press Gazette reported.

“I am happy that the truth has finally won out and my name has been cleared of the terrible crime of child abuse,” Green said in a statement on Twitter. “I have never and would never abuse anyone, including my daughter whom I love, dearly.

“While I have no doubt in my mind that I would have been successful in front of a jury of my peers in defending myself against all charges, even the two minor charges to which I have entered a no-contest plea, I decided as a father that I did not want to put my daughter, and the rest of my family, through the emotional trauma of a trial. No loving father would do otherwise.”

Story Continues





While on probation, Green isn’t allowed any unsupervised contact with his daughter, must write her a letter of apology, is required to take parenting and anger management classes and undergo an evaluation.

Green spent 12 seasons in the NFL, and eight seasons with the Green Bay Packers. The four-time Pro Bowl selection is currently the Packers’ all-time leading rusher with more than 8,300 yards, and was inducted into the Packers Hall of Fame in 2014.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Former NFL QB lost 100 pounds in a year

• A-Rod’s nephew kidnapped after botched Lamborghini sale

• Report: Peyton Manning didn’t want to call Eli’s games

• NFL schedule released: Eagles-Falcons kick things off

WASHINGTON (AP) — In a series of startlingly candid conversations, President Donald Trump told former FBI Director James Comey that he had serious concerns about the judgment of a top adviser, asked about the possibility of jailing journalists and described a boast from Vladimir Putin about Russian prostitutes, according to Comey's notes of the talks obtained by The Associated Press on Thursday night.

The 15 pages of documents contain new details about a series of interactions with Trump that Comey found so unnerving that he chose to document them in writing. Those seven encounters in the weeks and months before Comey's May 2017 firing include a Trump Tower discussion about allegations involving Trump and prostitutes in Moscow; a White House dinner at which Comey says Trump asked him for his loyalty; and a private Oval Office discussion where the ex-FBI head says the president asked him to end an investigation into Michael Flynn, the former White House national security adviser.

The documents had been eagerly anticipated since their existence was first revealed last year, especially since Comey's interactions with Trump are a critical part of special counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into whether the president sought to obstruct justice. Late Thursday night, Trump tweeted that the memos "show clearly that there was NO COLLUSION and NO OBSTRUCTION."

The president also accused Comey of leaking classified information. The memos obtained by the AP were unclassified, though some portions were blacked out as classified. Details from Comey's memos reported in news stories last year appear to come from the unclassified portions.

In explaining the purpose of creating the memos, which have been provided to Mueller, Comey has said he "knew there might come a day when I would need a record of what had happened" to defend not only himself but the FBI as well.

The memos cover the first three months of the Trump administration, a period of upheaval marked by staff turnover, a cascade of damaging headlines and revelations of an FBI investigation into potential ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. The documents reflect Trump's uneasiness about that investigation, though not always in ways that Comey seemed to anticipate.

In a February 2017 conversation, for instance, Trump told Comey how Putin told him, "we have some of the most beautiful hookers in the world" even as the president adamantly, and repeatedly, distanced himself from a salacious allegation concerning him and prostitutes in Moscow, according to one memo.

In another memo, Comey recounts how Trump at a private White House dinner pointed his fingers at his head and complained that Flynn, his embattled national security adviser, "has serious judgment issues." The president blamed Flynn for failing to alert him promptly to a congratulatory call from a world leader, causing a delay for Trump in returning a message to an official whose name is redacted in the documents.

"I did not comment at any point during this topic and there was no mention or acknowledgment of any FBI interest in or contact with General Flynn," Comey wrote.

By that point, the FBI had already interviewed Flynn about his contacts with the Russian ambassador, Sergey Kislyak, and the Justice Department had already warned White House officials that they were concerned Flynn was vulnerable to blackmail.

Flynn was fired Feb. 13, 2017, after White House officials said he had misled them about his Russian contacts during the transition period by saying that he had not discussed sanctions. The following day, according to a separate memo, Comey says Trump cleared the Oval Office of other officials, encouraged him to let go of the investigation into Flynn and called him a good guy. Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI and is now cooperating with Mueller's investigation.

The memos reveal that days before Flynn's firing, then-White House chief of staff Reince Priebus asked Comey if Flynn's communications were being monitored under a secret surveillance warrant.

"Do you have a FISA order on Mike Flynn?" Priebus asked Comey, according to the memos, referring to an order under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.

Comey said he "paused for a few seconds and then said that I would answer here, but that this illustrated the kind of question that had to be asked and answered through established channels."When Fox spent more than $3 billion to get into the “Thursday Night Football” business, it was clear the NFL would try to give them a good schedule of Thursday night games.

The question became, would there be enough good games to go around for Thursday, Sunday and Monday nights? When the NFL’s regular-season schedule was released on Thursday night, it was clear the league did its best to ensure that NBC and ESPN were happy, too.

[Check out our top 10 NFL prime-time games here.]

Fox should be pleased with most of its Thursday games, NBC got a very strong slate for Sunday night, and ESPN — often chided because it has typically lagged behind in its matchups for “Monday Night Football” — got a lot of good games, too. It’s clear the NFL invested heavily in its prime-time matchups, which couldn’t have been easy considering all 32 teams got at least one prime-time game.

What better way to turn around a ratings slide than to give the best games to the most-watched shows?

Green Bay Packers QB Aaron Rodgers is healthy again, and will be on prime time often during the 2018 season. (AP)

Fox gets a solid mix of Thursday night games with big-time teams

Minutes after the NFL Network’s schedule-release show started, analyst Steve Mariucci made a bold proclamation.

“This is the best [Thursday night] schedule we’ve ever had,” Mariucci, who has been a part of the “TNF” team for years, said.

That’s bold, but there’s a lot to like about the Thursday night schedule of games.

Fox’s first Thursday night game will be Week 4 between the Minnesota Vikings and Los Angeles Rams, two strong contenders in the NFC. The Indianapolis Colts and New England Patriots square off Week 5, and that has extra intrigue after Josh McDaniels left the Colts hanging this offseason.

While there are some games along the way that don’t look great on paper now — Dolphins-Texans, Broncos-Cardinals among them — there are some intriguing matchups like Saints at Cowboys and Chargers at Chiefs. It’s not like “Sunday Night Football,” which gets a marquee matchup just about every week, but Fox should be pleased.

Story Continues

Thursday night games

Week 1: Falcons at Eagles (NBC)

Week 2: Ravens at Bengals (NFL Network)

Week 3: Jets at Browns (NFL Network)

Week 4: Vikings at Rams (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 5: Colts at Patriots (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 6: Eagles at Giants (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 7: Broncos at Cardinals (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 8: Dolphins at Texans (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 9: Raiders at 49ers (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 10: Panthers at Steelers (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 11: Packers at Seahawks (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 12: Falcons at Saints, Thanksgiving (NBC)

Week 13: Saints at Cowboys (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 14: Jaguars at Titans (Fox, NFL Network)

Week 15: Chargers at Chiefs (Fox, NFL Network)

NBC gets the cream of the crop again

Many, many years ago, “Monday Night Football” got the best games. When NBC got into the “Sunday Night Football” game, the NFL shifted its best matchups there.

In 2018, Sunday night is still the place to be for NFL fans. If you include the traditional Week 1 Thursday night opener between the Atlanta Falcons and Minnesota Vikings, which goes to NBC, it’s about as strong of a schedule as NBC has ever been given. The only NBC games that don’t include at least one 2017 playoff team are Bears-Packers, Giants-Cowboys, Cowboys-Texans and 49ers-Seahawks, and all of those games should be very interesting.

There are great games like Chiefs-Patriots, Saints-Vikings, Packers-Patriots, Steelers-Jaguars … let’s just say NBC did well. Again. It’s an incredible slate of Sunday night games.

Sunday night games

Week 1: Bears at Packers

Week 2: Giants at Cowboys

Week 3: Patriots at Lions

Week 4: Ravens at Steelers

Week 5: Cowboys at Texans

Week 6: Chiefs at Patriots

Week 7: Rams at 49ers

Week 8: Saints at Vikings

Week 9: Packers at Patriots

Week 10: Cowboys at Eagles

Week 11: Steelers at Jaguars

Week 12: Packers at Vikings

Week 13: 49ers at Seahawks

Week 14: Steelers at Raiders

Week 15: Eagles at Rams

Week 16: Chiefs at Seahawks

Week 17: To be determined after Week 16

ESPN didn’t do too bad for Monday nights, either

It has become an annual tradition to look at ESPN’s slate of Monday night games and groan a bit. Some of this season’s Monday night matchups might not turn out to be great — nobody can predict injuries, or which teams will unexpectedly struggle — but “Monday Night Football” should have a bit of its swagger back, even though we’re still not sure who will be in the broadcast booth.

“Monday Night Football” doesn’t start great, with a mediocre New York Jets-Detroit Lions matchup for the first game of its traditional Week 1 doubleheader, but a Rams-Raiders showdown in the second game is fun. That’ll be Jon Gruden’s first game back as Raiders coach, and the Rams were easily the NFL’s most interesting team this offseason.

Not every game for ESPN is great. But of its 17 games, 12 feature at least one 2017 playoff team. And of the five other games, two include the 49ers, who come into 2018 as one of the league’s hottest teams because of how they finished last season with quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo. ESPN got some really fun matchups like Chiefs-Broncos, 49ers-Packers, Chiefs-Rams and Saints-Panthers. Some of the matchups could turn out to be duds, but at the moment it’s one of ESPN’s best schedules.

And as for who will be calling those “Monday Night Football” games, Kurt Warner — who is reportedly under consideration to replace Gruden — said with a flourish on NFL Network’s schedule-release show that the first thing he looked up when the schedule was released was the Monday night schedule. Maybe he was letting us all know he’ll be Gruden’s replacement. Whether it’s Warner or someone else in the booth, they’ll have some good games to call.

Monday night games

Week 1: Jets at Lions, Rams at Raiders

Week 2: Seahawks at Bears

Week 3: Steelers at Buccaneers

Week 4: Chiefs at Broncos

Week 5: Redskins at Saints

Week 6: 49ers at Packers

Week 7: Giants at Falcons

Week 8: Patriots at Bills

Week 9: Titans at Cowboys

Week 10: Giants at 49ers

Week 11: Chiefs at Rams

Week 12: Titans at Texans

Week 13: Redskins at Eagles

Week 14: Vikings at Seahawks

Week 15: Saints at Panthers

Week 16: Broncos at Raiders

– – – – – – –

Frank Schwab is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at shutdown.corner@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter!

Connor Cruise has a new passion — and it has nothing to do with spinning records.

The 23-year-old son of Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman was a DJ for years. He was playing big gigs at the age of 16, and his career took him everywhere from Las Vegas to Australia. He even had a DJ alias, D.J. C-Squared, which he went by for a minute. But he has put that on the back burner for a new pursuit: fishing.

Story Continues

Now living in Clearwater, Fla. — yes, home to Scientology’s international headquarters — Connor has been spending his days deep-sea fishing, often with the company 2 Shea Charters, and he’s good. Earlier this month, he and his fishing team came in third in the Rotary Club of Clearwater’s Kingfish Tournament.





Prize winnings for the tourney were just over $1,000 for the group — considerably less than his DJ paychecks, which were $10,000 for a two-hour set back in 2012 (so probably considerably higher at the end of his run). We suspect his paycheck for Red Dawn, his first major film, was much larger than even that.

The tabloid Radar Online reports that Cruise’s passion is actually a profession. He works “as a deep-sea fishing deckhand” for 2 Shea Charters. He “guts off a boat deck” and then “works for peanuts filleting finny critters caught by tourists who have no idea he’s the son of Hollywood royalty.”





According to the article, he starts his day at 5 a.m., “heading out with groups that pay $850 for six hours of angling.” A source said, “He loves being out on the water, so this is really a dream job for him.”

A rep for the charter company hasn’t yet responded to Yahoo’s inquiries, but he is featured on the company’s Instagram page.





He’s also on one of the captains’ pages.









As for that DJ career, a rep for SKAM Artists, which booked gigs for him, tells us, “He hasn’t really DJ’ed in a while.” After he missed a gig the night of and gave no notice, they “somewhat have stopped sending him work.” That explains why when you land on his page on the SKAM website, it notes, “There are currently no scheduled events for Connor Cruise.”

Connor’s DJ page on SKAM Artists says he has no upcoming gigs. (Image: SKAM Artists) More

Connor also worked with William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, and his bio had been deleted from the company’s website. The last photo he posted promoting a gig was in 2016, though a Tampa newspaper reported in September that he was going to DJ a local Halloween party in October.

One look at Connor’s Instagram page makes it clear that he’s enjoying his life on the water.





He posts photos of his catches all the time. And he’s called “Captain Connor.”









And some of his fishing buddies have been known to crack a joke about his famous lineage.





Connor’s life isn’t all fish guts. According to Radar Online, he hasn’t given up all his “privileged connections.” He lives in a three-bedroom townhouse. He owns a boat that costs $500,000. He drives a flashy bright yellow Mustang GT. And he also regularly dines on “five-star meals” at Scientology’s “ultra-private hotel, Fort Harrison.”

His father, a Scientology bigwig, recently bought a new home in Clearwater after selling off much of his L.A. real estate. Connor, who ended a relationship last year with a surfer and fisherwoman named Phylicia Bugna, reportedly has limited contact with his mother, Nicole Kidman, since she divorced Tom and left Scientology all those years ago. (Though he has always said nice things about her.)

Connor Cruise and his dad, Tom Cruise, catching a Dodgers game in L.A. in October 2013. (Photo: Noel Vasquez/Getty Images) More

As for Connor’s siblings, he seems to stay close to his sister, Bella, who was also adopted by Tom and Nicole. She recently launched a T-shirt line and — in a surprise move — incorporated Kidman’s name into the business. (Bella has also reportedly had little contact with Kidman, who married Keith Urban and lives in Nashville with their two daughters.) Meanwhile, his younger half-sister Suri — from Tom’s marriage to Katie Holmes — turned 12 on Wednesday. But Tom hasn’t been spotted with Suri in years, so we imagine for Connor it has been even longer.

Read more from Yahoo Entertainment:Carrie Underwood shared new details about her November fall in her first interview since the incident. The “Cry Pretty” singer revealed that the brutal tumble happened at night when she was taking her dogs out for a walk.

“I was taking the dogs out to go pee-pee one last time and I just — I tripped,” Underwood said on The Bobby Bones Show on Thursday. “There was one step and I didn’t let go of the leashes. Priorities! So that’s why my left hand’s fine, but I went to catch myself and I just missed a step.”

Carrie Underwood in Nashville on Thursday. (Photo: Jason Kempin/Getty Images for SiriusXM) More

She added, “If I had fallen anywhere else I would have been perfectly fine, but it was one step that messed everything up.”

The 35-year-old singer underwent surgery on her face that required 40 to 50 stitches, and afterward she warned fans she was “not quite looking the same.”

Underwood made her triumphant return to the stage for the first time since the fall at last Sunday’s Academy of Country Music Awards, and fans didn’t notice a thing (much to the dismay of some). When Bones noted that he also thought she looked the same, despite her warnings, she replied, “Thank you.”

Story ContinuesSamantha Sally and her late husband, Moussa Elhassani. (Photo: via Facebook) More

A mother of four from Indiana is sharing how she became involved with ISIS — and why she and her children are now being held in a Syrian-Kurdish jail.

Samantha Sally spoke to CNN about how her “romantic” second marriage to Moroccan-born husband Moussa Elhassani resulted in an unexpected move to Syria in 2014. Once there, Elhassani became violent and joined ISIS as a sniper.

“Before he would spoil me,” the 32-year-old American said. “We were very much in love. The romance never left. As soon as we came here, it changed. I was a dog. I didn’t have any choice. He was extremely violent. And there was nothing I could do about it. Nothing.”

The couple moved to Syria along with their daughter and Sally’s son from her first marriage. Sally, who first met Elhassani while they both worked at a delivery company in Elkhart, Ind., says that they originally planned to temporarily move to Elhassani’s native Morocco. First, however, they traveled to Hong Kong to transfer their money, followed by a vacation in Turkey.

It was their arrival in Turkey, near the border with Syria, where Elhassani revealed his intention to join ISIS. Although Sally opposed the plan, she feared that leaving Elhassani would separate her from her daughter.

“To stay there with my son or watch my daughter leave with my husband — I had to make a decision,” she told CNN.

“Maybe I would never have seen my daughter again ever, and how can I live the rest of my life like that?”

The family ended up settling in Raqqa, Syria, where Sally gave birth to two more children. In addition to Elhassani’s violent behavior, she was subjected to abuse from ISIS leaders, including a three-month stretch in jail while she was pregnant. Sally says that she was tortured, sexually abused, and put in solitary confinement while being accused of espionage on behalf of the U.S.

Their home life eventually included the purchase of three Yazidi slaves — two teenage females and one young boy — captured by ISIS. Both girls were raped by Elhassani, though Sally defends having them stay in her home.

“No one will ever know what it is like to watch their husband rape a 14-year-old girl,” she said. “Ever. And then she comes to you — me — after crying and I hold her and tell her it’s going to be OK. Everything is going to be fine, just be patient.

“I would never apologize for bringing those girls to my house,” she added. “They had me and I had them. And we knew that if we were just patient, we would stick together. You understand? In any other situation, they would be locked in a bedroom and fed tea every day. And the situation I was in with them, we cooked together, we cleaned together. Drank coffee together. Slept in the same room together. I was like their mother.”

Her eldest son, Matthew, was also taken advantage of and was made to appear in videos on behalf of the terrorist group. Sally’s objection to his participation resulted in a beating and two broken ribs.

Things changed when Elhassani was killed in a drone strike in 2017. Sally and her family eventually left Raqqa and were detained soon after. They remain in custody and wait for U.S. officials determine whether her affiliation with ISIS merits jail time.

Sally, meanwhile, is hopeful that she and her four children are able to return to the U.S.

“I will do anything to get my kids back where they belong,” she said. “If I have to spend 15 years in prison, it’s better than anything here.

“Me and my kids, we talk about wanting to eat McDonald’s,” she continued. “We want to live a normal life again.”

Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:

Cartoonist pays emotional tribute to Barbara Bush and her daughter who died at age 3

How Ronda Rousey stays in fighting shape

McKayla Maroney says Larry Nassar manipulated her with food

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.



Jenna Dewan appears to be faring well following news of her separation from husband Channing Tatum.

In photos posted to her Instagram on Wednesday, the 37-year-old actress was fresh-faced and all smiles as she lounged in a plush bed while wearing little more than a matching pale pink lace bra-and-underwear set. Jenna, who was mid-laugh while baring her tanned, toned abs, also donned a casual white wrap and clutched a coffee mug.

"A little R&R," she captioned a pic posted to Instagram, in which her wedding ring is noticeably absent. Needless to say, the image got lots of likes, including one from Channing!

Jenna also shared a sexy photo on her Instagram Story.



Instagram More

The Step Up star's racy snaps come just two weeks after announcing her split from Channing after eight years of marriage. Their shared statement stressed that they are headed on "different paths for now" but will continue to remain a loving family for the sake of their 4-year-old daughter, Everly.

"[We're] just two best-friends realizing it’s time to take some space and help each other live the most joyous, fulfilled lives as possible," the couple said in an Instagram post. "We are still a family and will always be loving dedicated parents to Everly."

After going public with her breakup, Jenna had an Instagram message for her fans last week. "Thank you guys for all your love. Love you right back," she captioned a photo of herself on the beach.

As for the couple's separation, multiple sources told ET that it was a long time coming.

"They have been fighting the last couple of years -- quite a bit," one source noted. "There is a sense of relief on both of their parts. They have tried working on things and had therapy but nothing changed."

For more on Jenna and Channing's split, watch the video below.

RELATED CONTENT:



Jenna Dewan Tatum Shares 'Thank You' Message to Fans Following Split From Channing Tatum





Why Channing Tatum Took a Year Off Ahead of Jenna Dewan Split (Exclusive)





Channing Tatum and Jenna Dewan Tatum's Sweetest PDA Moments



Related Articles:Looks like Channing Tatum has ditched his wedding ring.

After separating from Jenna Dewan Tatum earlier this month after eight years of marriage, the 37-year-old actor was spotted out and about in London, England, on Thursday, ringless.

Channing was seemingly trying to keep a low profile after hopping off a flight at Heathrow Airport, clad in a white Harvard Business School hoodie with maroon lettering. He shaded his face with a black baseball cap and appeared to be on the phone.

Backgrid More

One day earlier, Jenna -- who was photographed without her ring two weekends ago in Los Angeles -- shared a sexy, lingerie-clad pic to Instagram. The snap garnered over 212,000 likes, including one from Channing!

"A little R&R in my favorite @danskinapparel intimates," Jenna captioned it.

The professional dancer, also 37, shared an equally seductive shot to her Instagram Stories, accompanied with four pink heart emojis.

Instagram More

As for the couple's actual separation, multiple sources have told ET that it was a long time coming.

"They have been fighting the last couple of years -- quite a bit," one source claimed. "There is a sense of relief on both of their parts. They have tried working on things and had therapy, but nothing changed."

For more on what led to the Step Up stars' split, watch the video below.

RELATED CONTENT:

Jenna Dewan Posts Lingerie-Clad Pic to Instagram -- and Channing Tatum 'Likes' It

Jenna Dewan Tatum Shares 'Thank You' Message to Fans Following Split From Channing Tatum

Jenna Dewan Steps Out Without Her Wedding Ring in Los Angeles -- See the Pic

Related Articles:In case anyone had any doubts, Jenna Dewan is PROVING that she’s living her best life since her breakup...An eccentric art dealer who claims to have hidden treasure worth millions of pounds in the Rocky Mountains says 350,000 people have tried and failed to find to find the riches.

Forrest Fenn, 87, warned it could be “1,000 years from now” before hunters discover the whereabouts of the chest filled with gold nuggets and precious gems.

He revealed in 2010 that he had concealed the bounty somewhere in the 3,000-mile mountain range, and in a subsequent memoir he published a map and a poem said to contain nine clues about the location.

Four men have died looking for the treasure, thought to be worth about about $2m (£1.4m).

Mr Fenn, a former US Air Force pilot and art gallery owner, is bombarded with hundreds of emails a day from people fishing for clues. The millionaire estimates as many as 350,000 have gone hunting for the fortune, but said he had no way of knowing how close they had come to discovering it. “It could be found soon or 1,000 years from now,” he told CNBC.

Mr Fenn, whose gallery in the New Mexico city of Santa Fe attracted frequent visits from celebrities in the 1970s and 80s, initially planned to bury himself with the treasure when he was diagnosed with cancer in 1988. But after he recovered, he conceived the treasure hunt and dropped clues in a 24-line poem in his self-published memoir The Thrill of the Chase.

He said the popularity of the search “has been successful beyond my wildest dreams”.

However, police have accused Mr Fenn of putting lives at risk after fatal accidents involving treasure seekers. Last July, the body of 31-year-old Eric Ashby was pulled from Colorado’s Arkansas River after his raft overturned. His family said he had moved to the state a year earlier to look for Mr Fenn’s bounty.

Three other deaths have been linked to the search for the treasure.

The art dealer responded by revealing additional clues on his blog.

“The treasure chest is not under water, nor is it near the Rio Grande River,” he wrote. “It is not necessary to move large rocks or climb up or down a steep precipice, and it is not under a man-made object.

Video: Quest for Elusive Treasure a Multi-Millionaire Claims He Hid

“Please remember that I was about 80 when I made two trips from my vehicle to where I hid the treasure. Please be cautious and don’t take risks.”

Mr Fenn said his main motivation for setting the challenge was to encourage families to spend more time outdoors.

”I wanted to give the kids something to do,” he told Business Insiderin February. “They spend too much time in the game room or playing with their little handheld texting machines.

“I hope parents will take their children camping and hiking in the Rocky Mountains. I hope they will fish, look for fossils, turn rotten logs over to see what’s under them, and look for my treasure.”Somewhere in the Rockies, in the roughly 1,000 miles between Santa Fe, New Mexico, and the Canadian border, may be a treasure chest worth millions. The man who claims to have hidden the fortune back in 2010 is Forrest Fenn, now 87, a former Vietnam fighter pilot and art dealer.

Fenn estimates that as many as 350,000 people have gone hunting for the treasure, he tells CNBC Make It , adding that there is no way of knowing whether anyone has actually gotten close. "It could be found soon or 1,000 years from now," he says.

"No one knows where that treasure chest is but me," Fenn told NPR in 2016. That includes his wife. "If I die tomorrow, the knowledge of that location goes in the coffin with me."

The main piece of guidance Fenn has offered is a cryptic 24-line poem he wrote in his self-published memoir, " The Thrill of the Chase ." He has since shared the poem on Instagram.

"Begin it where warm waters halt / and take it in the canyon down. / Not far, but too far to walk. / Put in below the home of Brown," reads one stanza.

"Read the clues in my poem over and over and study maps of the Rocky Mountains," Fenn recently told Business Insider . "Try to marry the two. The treasure is out there waiting for the person who can make all the lines cross in the right spot."

The chest is nearly a square foot in size and weighs 40 pounds when full. It supposedly contains emeralds, rubies, gold coins and diamonds — all artifacts that Fenn, a self-taught archaeologist, amassed during his own sometimes controversial explorations in the Southwest, reports Vox . The millionaire was criticized in the 1990s for excavating the San Lazaro Pueblo Indian site he bought, for example, and the FBI searched his home in 2009 in connection with the sale of artifacts looted from the Four Corners area, though no charges were filed.

Fenn originally filled the chest after he was diagnosed with cancer in 1988. He planned to drag it into the mountains to die beside it. After he survived, he left it in a walk-in vault at his house for years, where a couple of witnesses confirmed to NPR that they saw it filled to the brim with valuables.

He decided to hide it and launch the hunt years later, during the Great Recession. "Lots of people [were] losing their job, despair was written all over the headlines, and I just wanted to give some people hope," he told ABC News .

Some of the Fenn treasure hunters are obsessive. "Most of my 12 hours every night I'm on Google or something looking up clues," Ricky Idlett, a steamboat operator in Mississippi, told Vox. "Every night. Every night I'm looking." There are a number of online forums where enthusiasts trade theories about where the treasure might be, including an entire subreddit called r/FindingFennsGold that's devoted to the cause.

Fenn says he gets 100 emails a day, reports the New York Times . On a few occasions, he has had to call the police after unwelcome visitors showed up at his house or threatened him. "This one guy called me," Fenn told ABC News. "He said, 'Tell me where the treasure is right now. I'm going to kill you.'"

And for some, the quest has proven fatal. At least four people are believed to have died in accidents while searching. This led some to call for Fenn to end the hunt. He hasn't, but he has added a few additional clues on his blog to try to help people stay safe.

"The treasure chest is not under water, nor is it near the Rio Grande River. It is not necessary to move large rocks or climb up or down a steep precipice," he writes. "Please remember that I was about 80 when I made two trips from my vehicle to where I hid the treasure."

"The search is supposed to be fun," he added.

He has also affirmed that hiding the treasure in the first place was largely about encouraging families to enjoy the outdoors. "I wanted to give the kids something to do," he said . "They spend too much time in the game room or playing with their little handheld texting machines. I hope parents will take their children camping and hiking in the Rocky Mountains. I hope they will fish, look for fossils, turn rotten logs over to see what's under them, and look for my treasure."

Overall, considering that supposedly hundreds of thousands have gone searching for the treasure, Fenn tells CNBC Make It that hiding it in the first place "has been successful beyond my wildest dreams."

Don't miss: What former NFL star Terrell Owens learned from blowing through $80 million

Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook !





More From CNBC

Thousands reportedly have gone searching for the treasure Forrest Fenn says "is out there waiting" but they have had no luck so far.A British single mother says she is often mistaken as her 20-year-old son’s girlfriend or sister — despite being in her 40s.

Shimmi Munshi says she ‘stopped aging’ when she was 20-years-old. Image via Facebook More

Shimmi Munshi recently spoke to The Daily Mail about how she’s been seemingly gifted with eternal youth, and the pitfalls that come with it.

“As an adult, I’ve always looked young,” Munshi said. “As my friends began aging, I seemed to go in the opposite direction, but I’ve no idea why.”

When she was 20, Munshi gave birth to her son, Ameen. Although there were many pressures and responsibilities that came from being a young mother, Munshi says she somehow maintained her youthful appearance.

Shimmi Munshi and her 20-year-old son, Ameen. Image via Facebook More

ALSO SEE: Is this Instagram star the most youthful grandmother?

“I was a single mom, juggling work and motherhood, and anyone would think the stress might have started to show. Instead, I seemed to stop aging.”



Munshi says she is frequently asked for ID whenever she goes out and has even been refused service on multiple occasions. She frequently fields questions from people as to whether or not she’s had plastic surgery.

“I’d certainly never had cosmetic surgery,” she insists. “And my beauty routine consisted of baby wipes and whatever moisturizer was on special offer in the supermarket!



Shimmi Munshi denies ever having cosmetic surgery. Image via Facebook More

Munshi reveals her self-care routine is fairly simple- she drinks plenty of water and green tea and doesn’t smoke or drink alcohol. Although she has a gym membership, she says she is not at all concerned with her appearance.

ALSO SEE: This 47-year-old grandma is turning heads on Instagram

“I feel like the female version of Peter Pan – the girl who never grew up.”

Surprisingly, Munshi suffers from a debilitating disease called, gastroparesis – causing her to vomit up to 60 times a day. Over the past 10 years, Munshi has been in and out of hospitals but somehow maintains her shockingly youthful appearance.

“I might be feeling absolutely rubbish but somehow I still manage to look young. I wish I had some special secret I could share – but the truth is, I’ve no idea how I do it.”



Let us know what you think by commenting below and tweeting @YahooStyleCA!

Follow us on Twitter and Instagram.First-time judge appointed by Trump issues his very first opinion. It’s a doozy. More

Judge James Ho has been a federal judge for only a few months. Until Wednesday, he had never handed down a judicial opinion in his life. But the Trump appointee’s very first opinion, a dissent calling for a sweeping assault on campaign contribution limits, is a doozy. More than just an ideologically radical opinion, Judge Ho’s dissent from the full United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit’s decision not to rehear Zimmerman v. City of Austin is a monument to conservative political rhetoric and right-wing historical myths. It’s the sort of commentary one would expect to find in an especially strident political magazine — perhaps one of the publications one of Ho’s current law clerks

Continue ReadingThis photo provided by the DEA, Miguel Angel Corea Diaz, center, the alleged East Coast leader of MS-13, is lead by Drug Enforcement Administration officers, Wednesday, April 18, 2018 in Baltimore. DEA agents have brought Diaz to New York to face murder conspiracy and drug-trafficking charges. Prosecutors say Diaz ordered beatings and killings and directed the gang's drug operations in New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Texas and elsewhere. (Drug Enforcement Administration via AP)

NEW YORK (AP) — The alleged East Coast crime boss of the notorious street gang MS-13 was ordered held without bail on Thursday at his first court appearance on Long Island, where prosecutors accuse him of having a hand in a wave of violence.

Miguel Angel Corea Diaz had been jailed in Maryland in a separate drug case. Drug Enforcement Administration agents transported him to Nassau County on Wednesday.

When the charges against Corea Diaz and 16 other defendants with alleged ties to MS-13 were announced earlier this year, DEA officials described him as the "point man on the East Coast who would report to MS-13 hierarchy in El Salvador."

An indictment alleges the 35-year-old Corea Diaz ordered beatings and killings and directed the gang's drug operations in New York, New Jersey, Maryland, Texas and elsewhere while using the street name "Reaper."

In 2017, Corea Diaz directed two of the other defendants to kill a rival in Elizabeth, New Jersey. There's evidence that the defendants discussed where to dispose the victim's body and how deep to dig the hole before law enforcement thwarted them, Nassau County prosecutors said.

Authorities believe MS-13, or the Mara Salvatrucha, has thousands of members across the country, mostly Central American immigrants.

Corea Diaz's attorney, Scott Gross, declined comment on Thursday.

Related Video: Is Trump Using MS-13 To Target Latino Youth?

Watch news, TV and more on Yahoo View.Now that they're modern royalty, the Kardashians have been gradually phasing out of their humble beginnings as reality stars. Kim Kardashian just announced today that now includes closing all of their DASH stores, the centerpiece of early Keeping Up With the Kardashians episodes as well as the Kourtney & Kim Take Miami, Kourtney and Kim Take New York, Dash Dolls spinoffs. The end of an era is truly here.

“After nearly 12 years, my sisters and I have decided to close the doors of our DASH stores,” Kardashian said in a statement shared on her lifestyle app and website. “We opened our first store as a family in 2006 and since then we have made so many lifelong memories. From opening locations in Los Angeles, Miami and New York, to having our Dash Dolls spin-off show, it’s been such a huge part of our lives.”

At their peak, the Kardashians maintained DASH stores West Hollywood, New York and Miami, as well as a lesser-known store in Las Vegas called Kardashian Khaos, which opened at the Mirage Hotel in December 2011 and closed in 2014, as The Daily Mail reported at the time. The New York store closed in 2014, four years after it opened. Meanwhile, the West Hollywood store closed after it was robbed of more than $1,000 merchandise and, in a separate incident, a woman came into a store with a gun before being arrested (no one was hurt), as ET noted.

The reason for shuttering the remaining locations in Los Angeles and Miami? Kim, Kourtney and Khloe Kardashian are focusing on other projects, like the KKW Beauty line, Khloe's Good American brand, and all of their respective lifestyle apps. Also, a lot has changed since they founded DASH in 2006. "We've loved running DASH, but in the last few years, we've all grown so much individually," Kardashian said. "We've been busy running our own brands, as well as being moms and balancing work with our families. We know in our hearts that it's time to move on. We love our DASH Dolls and are so grateful for the amazing memories. And we have to give a special thanks to the DASH employees and all of the incredible fans and customers who have supported us throughout the years! We couldn't have done it without you. Thank you to everyone!"Good taste in swimwear runs in the family, as far as the Kardashian-Jenners are concerned, though Kourtney may have her siblings beat.

Good taste in swimwear runs in the family as far as the Kardashian-Jenners are concerned, though Kourtney Kardashian may have her famous siblings beat in recent months. The eldest of the Kardashian sisters, who turns 39 today, has worn some very chic bathing suits of late. Whether she’s lounging poolside with her sister Kim in Turks and Caicos or paddleboarding in St.-Tropez, it seems there is no swim trend Kourt can’t pull off.

Just look at her Instagram feed for proof. Beyond mastering the art of the swimsuit selfie (another family skill), Kourtney has shown her love for shimmering metallic separates, bejeweled maillots, and unexpected silhouettes, including one-shoulder, off-the-shoulder, and puff-sleeve styles. In honor of the birthday girl’s ability to do so much with so little, we’ve shopped out a few of her best swimwear style moments, so that you, too, can try to keep up.

View photos Photo: (left to right) Courtesy of farfetch.com; farfetch.com; lesgirlslesboys.com More

View photos Photo: (left to right) Courtesy of net-a-porter.com; myraswim.com; ookioh.com More

View photos Photo: (left to right) Courtesy of kisuii.com; shopbop.com; modaoperandi.com More

View photos Photo: (left to right) Courtesy of net-a-porter.com; marysia.com; araks.com More

View photos Photo: (left to right) Courtesy of jadeswim.com; vilebrequin.com; laperla.com More

View photos Photo: (left to right) Courtesy of modaoperandi.com; stellamccartney.com; shemademe.com MoreChrissy Teigen always has Kim Kardashian West's back, especially when it's poking fun at Kanye. See famous BFF's fun interaction!

Watch TV shows, movies and more on Yahoo View.

About E! News Now

Get the latest entertainment news, gossip and more with "E! News Now." Whether it's the hottest celeb scandal, biggest meltdown, break-up, make-up or just that must-see moment everyone is talking about, "E! News Now" is on the case, delivering it all day and night. See More

Check out more stuff on Yahoo ViewTammie Jo Shults, the level-headed pilot praised as a hero for steering the Southwest Flight 1380 to safety after it suffered an engine blowout, has received additional praise from one of the few people on earth who knows what must have been going through her mind at the time.

Chelsey “Sully” Sullenberger was the captain who managed to land US Airways Flight 1549 safely onto the Hudson River in Manhattan in 2009 when the plane suffered engine failure after hitting a flock of geese while flying over New York, saving all 155 people on board.

RTX5T6OC More

Kevin Garber/MidAmerica Nazarene University/Handout via REUTERS

Trending: Mammals Have Been Shrinking for Thousands of Years and It's All Humans' Fault

Sullenberger told Newsweek that Tuesday’s emergency landing had similarities to his “Miracle on the Hudson,” which was later made into a film starring Tom Hanks.

"In those first seconds, I knew it was going to change our lives forever. I knew that every thought I had, every choice I made, everything I said, everything I did or did not do would be scrutinized not only by investigators, but by aviation professionals for years," Sullenberger said.

The California-based pilot praised Shults and her crew for keeping a cool head during the emergency situation.

Audio recording of the moment Shults told air traffic control about the emergency has since been released, revealing just how calm the pilot remained under extreme pressure.

Don't miss: Who Has the Legal Right to Look At Michael Cohen’s Seized Files? | Opinion

"No, it's not on fire, but part of it is missing,” she says, almost tranquilly. “They said there's a hole and someone went out."

Sullenberger spoke about how pilots summon calm in a sudden emergency. Despite decades of training, planning and anticipation, those situations can still surprise a pilot and be startling, he said.

“I never gave a second thought about making that choice, about sacrificing the airplane to save lives," he told Newsweek. "It is a great responsibility to have that much authority. I'm sure that's one that this captain feels deeply. The outcome indicates that they worked together as a team...to rise to the occasion and achieve the best possible outcome under those circumstances.

Sullenberger and Shults, one of the Navy's first female fighter pilots, are part of a "small club" of people who have managed to safely land a plane after experiencing major failure. But the aftermath can be very tough to settle, he said, adding that for anyone who experiences such a moment, life is defined as before and after the incident.

Most popular: ‘Hearthstone’ Monster Hunt Coming April 26: Encounters, Heroes and Witches

"What really helped me in dealing with this was that I realized I had to make this experience a part of me, not simply something that had happened to me," he said. "I had to integrate it into my psyche, to made it part of my life experience that made me who I am and not feel like it was just a trauma –to take control of it, to embrace it, and that’s what finally helped the most."

Sullenberger pointed to another engine failure in 2016, which was identified as the cause of Tuesday’s incident.The family of Jennifer Riordan has set up a memorial fund in her honor just days after her death following an engine explosion on Southwest Airlines Flight 1380 on Tuesday.

Riordan—a 43-year-old mother of two and bank executive from Albuquerque, New Mexico—was fatally injured when she was partially sucked out of a window after an engine exploded during her flight from LaGuardia Airport in New York to Dallas.

In a statement to PEOPLE, Riordan’s family announced the founding of a memorial website, The Jennifer Riordan Memorial Trust, where people who are interested can support causes that were important to Riordan and help the family meet financial needs after the traumatic event.

“We appreciate the outpouring of support for our family and the love for Jennifer,” the statement, provided to PEOPLE, states. “Hearing stories of how she impacted everyone in so many meaningful ways has truly touched our hearts. To honor her legacy, an official memorial site has been created to fund causes that were near and dear to her heart.”

View photos

Riordan had to be pulled back in by a team of passengers—including Andrew Needum, a firefighter from Texas—and was given CPR by retired nurse Peggy Phillips for almost 20 minutes until the plane’s pilot was able to make an emergency landing in Philadelphia. According to CBS News, Riordan was wearing her seatbelt during the time of the incident.

“They were fighting to get her back in. It was a struggle, it looked like it took a few people. There was quite a bit of blood,” a passenger on the flight, who chose to remained anonymous, told PEOPLE about the chaotic scene. “I saw a passenger pumping on her chest performing CPR and someone ran up to the front of the plane where they got a defibrillator.”

View photos

RELATED: Southwest Passenger Recalls ‘Struggle’ During Deadly Flight: ‘There Was Quite a Bit of Blood’

Riordan’s death was caused by blunt impact trauma to her head, neck and torso, the Philadelphia Department of Public Health said on Wednesday.

The website also offers the option for visitors to send well-wishes to Riordan’s two young children, Averie and Joshua.

View photosAn audio recording from the Southwest plane that experienced a deadly engine explosion on Tuesday paints a chilling picture of the flight’s last minutes in the air.

The tragic incident was caused by one of the engines on Southwest flight #1380 exploding mid flight, blowing out a window and causing passenger Jennifer Riordan to be partially sucked out of the plane. The bank executive and mother of two later died as a result of her injuries.

RELATED: Pilot Who Landed Deadly Southwest Flight Was One of Navy’s First Female Fighter Pilots

The plane’s captain, Tammie Jo Shults, a former fighter pilot with the U.S. Navy, successfully landed the severely damaged aircraft. In a recording shared by NBC Philadelphia of her conversation with the air traffic controller at that city’s airport, where the plane made an emergency landing, Shults can be heard relaying the details of what’s happened onboard.

“We have part of the aircraft missing, so we’re going to need to slow down a bit,” she tells the controller, who instructs her at what altitude and direction she can position the plane to make the landing between other inbound flights.

“There’s a Southwest 737 on a 4-mile final, be turning southbound. Start looking for the airport. It’s off to your right and slightly behind you there,” he says.

Shults replies requesting emergency medical workers get to the plane as soon as possible when they get on the ground: “Ok, could you have medical meet us there on the runway as well? We’ve got injured passengers.”

In their final exchange, the airport worker can be heard asking, “Is your plane physically on fire there?”

To which, she replies, “No, it’s not on fire, but part of it’s missing. They said there’s a hole and someone went out.”

RELATED: Southwest Passenger Recalls ‘Struggle’ During Deadly Flight: ‘There Was Quite a Bit of Blood’

In a lower quality 10-minute recording posted to Sound Cloud, Shultz can be heard telling the ground crew, “We’re single engine,” and negotiating the complicated landing.

A representative for Southwest Airlines declined PEOPLE’s request for comment from Shults and the flight crew, adding: “We couldn’t be more proud of their actions.”Michael Che Points Out the Lies He Told in a "Things You Don't Know About Me" Article …

InterviewBOS

8 2

Andrew Benintendi singled to center, Brock Holt and Mookie Betts scored. Andrew Benintendi to second advancing on throwMIL

0 1

Christian Yelich caught stealing, catcher to shortstop to first to second to first, Lorenzo Cain scoredPHI

0 5

Odúbel Herrera singled to left, César Hernández scored, Carlos Santana to thirdNYM

3 10

Brandon Nimmo walked, Jose Lobaton scored, Amed Rosario to third, Michael Conforto to secondNYY

0 1

Tyler Wade grounded out, second to first, Aaron Hicks scored, Neil Walker to thirdYour world has come alive with sights and smells that seem to resonate with your soul. You might feel as if you are back at home now that the radiant Sun is comfortably settled in your sign. Sharing your happiness with someone close to you is as sweet as the icing on a cake. However, theres no need to turn your present joy into a plan for the future. Allow your imagination to play without restraint. Vincent van Gogh wrote, What is done with love is done well. Get Your Complete Cosmic ProfileAnd now here's Myles Udland with a look ahead at what will be making headlines on Friday.The chief executives of AT&T (T) and Time Warner (TWX) appeared in federal court this week to make their case for the proposed $85 billion mega-merger they agreed on back in 2016, which the US Justice Department has sought to block.

Randall Stephenson of AT&T and Jeff Bewkes of Time Warner are aiming to convince Judge Richard Leon that AT&T owning Time Warner would not create an unfair advantage or hurt consumers.

Bewkes went first. In remarks on Wednesday reported by Reuters, the New York Times and others, Bewkes tried to frame Time Warner as an underdog, facing off against Silicon Valley goliaths like Facebook and Google for ad dollars. He pointed to two “tectonic changes” that have taken place in the industry: “The first one is, there’s television program being offered directly to consumers. The second is that sometimes those same companies, sometimes some other new entrants, you can now have digital advertising. And that’s different than the old television advertising, and it competes with us… It is a double whammy that is a significant one.”

The sale to AT&T, Bewkes reasoned, is necessary because, “We don’t have the tech platform, don’t have the engineers, don’t have the infrastructure” alone.

Bewkes also blasted as “ridiculous” the DOJ’s apparent concern that if AT&T owned Time Warner it would resist licensing out Time Warner television content to competitors, which would leave some consumers without access to the content. “If our channels are not in distribution we lose lots of money,” he said, according to Reuters. He gave a similar argument about the fear that AT&T would try to keep competitors from promoting HBO: “We need to have as many subscribers as we can get,” he said, Variety reported.

AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson (L) and Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes at a 2016 conference (AFP Photo/Glenn Chapman) More

Stephenson got his turn on Thursday. He focused on the argument that the merger will be beneficial to consumers: by owning Time Warner, AT&T will make more in advertising, allowing it to lower prices in turn on products like DirecTV. He called the merger a “vision deal.”

And Stephenson, like Bewkes, addressed the fears that AT&T would use its Time Warner assets to block rival cable providers from offering the same content. “That strategy is not a good approach to creating value,” he said, according to the Washington Post.

Finally, Stephenson appeared to make a big reveal in his testimony. He shared that AT&T plans to launch a new skinny bundle, AT&T Watch, that sounds skinnier than its existing offering, DirecTV Now. It will also be cheaper than DirecTV Now.

The trial over the merger should wrap up before May.

—

Daniel Roberts covers tech and media at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter at @readDanwrite.

Read more:

AT&T-Time Warner deal has massive implications for sports TV

What Disney will do with Fox’s regional sports networks

How MLB’s tech arm got so big that Disney had to buy it

How Amazon Prime’s 100 million subscribers stack up to Netflix, Spotify

Amazon Prime, YouTube TV are in a sports streaming race

Amazon’s NFL streaming is an ad-data playBill Mead of Houston is glad the tax cuts signed by President Trump last year lowered the corporate tax rate, aligning it more with rates in other nations. But the naval architect, 71, still feels the cuts were far too generous to the wealthy. “I don’t know why they need it,” he says. “They’re just going to use it to overpay for something they could have anyway. They all need to sit down at the club and think about this. They could make the country better by paying a little more.”

Overall, Mead—a Republican—disapproves of the new tax law.

So do a lot of other Americans. In the latest Gallup poll, 48% of respondents said they disapprove of the tax cuts, while just 39% approve–which seems surprising, given that the cuts have boosted take-home pay for roughly two-thirds of workers. Republicans in Washington are so dismayed by the tax law’s unpopularity that they’re considering another round of tax cuts, although passage seems unlikely.

Reuters More

Yahoo Finance conducted its own flash poll on April 18 to figure out why, exactly, Americans don’t like the tax cuts. We found three basic reasons: People think the tax cuts favor the wealthy over the middle and working class. They’re suspicious that tax cuts for businesses are permanent but tax cuts for individuals are temporary. And they think it’s irresponsible to finance the tax cuts with debt that future workers will have to shoulder.

“It bothers me, because I have children and grandchildren and I wonder how this is going to affect them,” a database architect who lives in the Pacific Northwest told Yahoo Finance. His income is in the top 3%, he says, and his after-tax pay rose by about 5% this year due to the tax cuts. His daughter earns far less than he does, however, and she has seen little gain. “I got a huge benefit,” he says, “but my daughter, who makes about one-eighth what I make, saw a negligible increase in pay. We should have had a tax cut targeted at the class that’s really hurting.” The data architect is an Independent.

Our audience at Yahoo Finance is more enthused about the Trump tax cuts than the broader population, probably because they tend to be investors benefiting from provisions that favor shareholders and business owners. Of more than 2,000 respondents in our survey, 57% approve of the tax cuts. Our audience also favors President Trump by about 5 percentage points more than the broader population. (Full survey results are at the end of this story.)

Who benefits most from the tax cuts?

Yet even among a group favorably disposed toward tax cuts, two glaring objections to the GOP tax law appear in our survey results. First, a plurality—42%–think the tax cuts favor the wealthy most of all. Only 29.6% say they favor the working and middle class.

Source: Yahoo Finance poll conducted online via SurveyMonkey on April 18. More

Respondents are also concerned about the $1.8 trillion in new debt the US government will have to issue over the next decade, to make up for federal revenue lost to the tax cuts. “This was adding fuel to a fire already burning fine,” says Mike, a Wisconsin investment adviser. “We should be running, at worst, a break-even budget right now and stacking some dry powder. It was just a classic case of borrowing from the future at the stupidest possible time.” Mike is a Republican.

In our survey, 44.5% of respondents said short-term benefits from the tax cuts is not worth the additional debt. Only 39.4% feel the benefits are worth the additional debt.

Source: Yahoo Finance poll conducted online via SurveyMonkey on April 18. MoreBy Sinéad Carew

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street's three major indexes closed lower on Thursday, with tobacco stocks leading a tumble in consumer staples while concerns about smartphone demand hurt the technology sector and rising bond yields and earnings helped financials rebound.

The market pared some losses late in the session after Bloomberg reported that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told President Donald Trump last week he is not a target of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. The report cited two unnamed people familiar with the matter.

Cigarette giant Philip Morris International Inc (PM.N) was the second biggest weight on the S&P after weaker-than-expected results, also pulling down U.S. tobacco company Altria (MO.N).

A warning from Taiwan Semiconductor (TSMC) <2330.TW>, the world's largest contract chipmaker and an Apple Inc (AAPL.O) supplier, on soft demand for smartphones and on the industry's growth this year sparked a tumble in chip stocks and made Apple the S&P's second biggest weight.

Along with weak results from Philip Morris and Procter & Gamble Co (PG.N), defensive sectors such as consumer staples (.SPLRCS) were also hurt by a rise in U.S. 10-year Treasury yields, which helped bank stocks.

"It's pretty much dictated by the move in the bond market," said Stephen Massocca, senior vice president at Wedbush Securities in San Francisco.





When yields are high, investors favor bonds over defensive sectors such as consumer staples and real estate, which promise high dividends and slow, predictable growth. But banks benefit because high interest rates can boost their profits.

"The sectors really tell the story. Financials are up because they do better in a higher rate environment," said Richard Sichel, senior investment strategist at The Philadelphia Trust Company.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) fell 83.18 points, or 0.34 percent, to 24,664.89, the S&P 500 (.SPX) lost 15.51 points, or 0.57 percent, to 2,693.13 and the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) dropped 57.18 points, or 0.78 percent, to 7,238.06.

The S&P consumer staples sector was the benchmark's biggest drag, closing down 3.2 percent, led by Philip Morris' 15.6 percent slide. Altria, the parent of Philip Morris USA, fell 6 percent.

Procter & Gamble shares were down 3.3 percent after it said shrinking retailer inventories and higher commodities and transportation costs had squeezed its margins.

Apple shares fell 2.8 percent, making it the biggest drag on the S&P 500 on the day, as a raft of analysts said TSMC's prediction of softer smartphone sales was driven chiefly by concern about demand for the company's iPhones.

TSMC's U.S.-listed shares (TSM.N) closed down 5.7 percent, while the Philadelphia SE semiconductor index (.SOX) tumbled 4.3 percent.

A 1.5 percent rise in the S&P's financial sector (.SPSY), was supported by a 7.6 percent jump in American Express Co (AXP.N) shares due to strong earnings as well as climbing yields.

But rising bond yields hurt homebuilders and the PHLX housing index (.HGX) fell 2.7 percent.

Of the 52 companies among the S&P 500 that have reported first-quarter earnings through Wednesday, 78.8 percent topped profit expectations, according to Thomson Reuters data.

Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 2.22-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.71-to-1 ratio favored decliners.

The S&P 500 posted 22 new 52-week highs and 16 new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 87 new highs and 52 new lows.

On U.S. exchanges 6.52 billion shares changed hands, compared with the 6.98 billion-share average for the last 20 sessions.





(Additional reporting by April Joyner and Caroline Valetkevitch in New York, Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Nick Zieminski and Jonathan Oatis)Walmart Inc (NYSE:WMT) announced that the company is changing the employee dress code to a more lenient one in an effort to create a more relaxed work atmosphere.

Walmart Dress Code More

Source: Flickr>

The company announced that it is allowing blue jeans to be worn by workers at its stores for the first time ever. Walmart is testing new dress codes in a small number of U.S. stores with the hopes that this more relaxed environment will help to reel in and retain staff in an increasingly tighter labor market.

This means that workers will be allowed to wear shirts of any solid color, which marks a shift from its previous option of only having blue or white shirts, according to an employee manual obtained by Bloomberg News. As far as jeans go, only solid blue ones will be allowed, which is also a change from previously only allowing khaki-colored pants or black denim pants.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Walmart adds that visible facial tattoos will be forbidden for those hired after April 14, according to the manual. This is one of many moves the retailer is making in order to keep cashiers and shelf stockers satisfied as the company announced in February that it was boosting the starting hourly wage, while also adding bonuses to employees.

The company also expanded its parental-leave policy and included an adoption benefit.

WMT stock fell a fraction of a percentage Thursday.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Walmart Dress Code to Get a Lot More Flexible appeared first on InvestorPlace.Should We Call It a Comeback? Former Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer Is Launching a Tech Incubator

Former Yahoo Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer is starting a technology business incubator, Lumi Labs, with longtime colleague Enrique Muñoz Torres.

The venture will focus on consumer media and artificial intelligence, according to the company’s website, which is set against a backdrop of snow-covered peaks. Lumi means snow in Finnish, Mayer told the New York Times, which reported the news earlier Wednesday.

The next project for Mayer, who was an early employee at Google googl and worked there until leaving to run Yahoo in 2012, had been a matter of considerable speculation in Silicon Valley. She left Yahoo, once a leading search engine and web destination, after it was sold to Verizon Communications vz last year.

Lumi is based in Palo Alto, California, in the office where Mayer began her career at Google, she told the Times.'One of my key learnings from Yahoo is timing is everything', Marissa Mayer More

Marissa Mayer was celebrated as a savior when she left Google to become chief executive of Yahoo in 2012. A brilliant computer scientist, Mayer was the 20th employee at Google, and influenced many of the company’s signature features — including Gmail and Google Maps. But could she save Yahoo? The company was reeling from boardroom tumult and a series of executive changeovers when she arrived, and Google and Facebook were winning the war for online eyeballs and ad dollars. Her tenure was ferociously controversial. Investors did well during Mayer’s five years at the helm, seeing the value of their shares more than triple. But Mayer’s every decision was second-guessed by Silicon Valley, and sheMarissa Mayer is starting the next phase of her career exactly where she began nearly 20 years ago.

The embattled former CEO of Yahoo, who began her career at Google in 1999 after graduating Stanford University with bachelor’s and master’s degrees in computer science, is now renting Google’s old office in Palo Alto, California, Mayer told The New York Times (paywall):









This is also where PayPal started, so there’s a lot of good juju here. Coming back here, it reminds me of what Google felt like in those early moments. I remember running up those steps, because if you didn’t get here fast enough on Saturday morning, someone in the world was going to get worse search results, and it might change their life for the worse.

America’s richest people live in one specific kind of neighborhood



Mayer left Google for Yahoo in 2012, after 13 years at Google in which she oversaw various products including its most profitable business, Search. She was heralded after her departure as a “geek goddess” and savvy leader who would return Yahoo to its former glory. “In 1999, Yahoo was the internet,” Mayer reminded the Times. But, ultimately, she wasn’t able to return it to relevance, though investors did see a higher return during her helm. Her tenure there was also marred by a massive data breach. She sold the business to Verizon and stepped down from her post last year.

As for her next bet, Mayer is playing it close to the vest. She told the Times she has a “little lab” called Lumi Labs in the old Google space where her team is dabbling with consumer-facing ideas. “So I’ve been meeting with different founders and just seeing what’s happening in the industry.”

Sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief, our free daily newsletter with the world’s most important and interesting news.

More stories from Quartz:



The Bitcoin bulls didn’t get the memo on Wednesday, with Bitcoin only managing a 3.56% rise on day, partially reversing Monday and Tuesday’s losses, to end the day at $8,169.5.

A morning rally saw Bitcoin break out from the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57 to hit a morning $8,168.8 high, breaking through the first major support level of $8,098.87 before seeing a pullback to an early afternoon $7,907.4 to call on buyer support at the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57. A late afternoon rally saw Bitcoin hit an intraday high $8,237.2, testing the day’s 1st major resistance level for a 2nd time and this time managing to hold on through to the day’s end.

Bitcoin’s $7,870.5 intraday low hit in the early morning, managed to hold above the first major support level of $7,736.87, though the day’s gains paled in comparison to its peers, with Bitcoin Cash steeling the Bitcoin limelight on the day, surging 18.3%.

Wednesday’s moves provided some evidence that the U.S tax season may have had some influence on the cryptomarkets, though investors have also been relatively free from negative news from governments and regulators on planned roll out of new regs in the summer, which would have been another positive in recent weeks.

For the Bitcoin bulls, Wednesday’s moves suggest that Bitcoin Cash may be finding more favour in the market, the Bitcoin Cash fork providing much needed improvements that gives Bitcoin Cash a fighting chance in the real world. Bitcoin’s transaction speeds and fees an unrealistic alternative to the fiat currency world.

It may be too early to call a changing of the guard, but Wednesday certainly signals a shift and, while Bitcoin will likely continue to be the broader market’s barometer near-term, Bitcoin’s influence could begin to wane, Bitcoin’s dominance having eased to 40.1% from 45% levels back in late March. While dominance levels have tended to reflect cryptomarket conditions in the past, how Bitcoin’s dominance levels move in the coming weeks will be particularly interesting.

For now, Bitcoin’s miners have stayed put, with Bitcoin’s hash rate rising to 30.5385E, well above Bitcoin Cash’s 2.8637E, a cross-over having only taken place on 2 occasions back in 2017, the first on 23rd August and the second on 12th November, from which point the pair have seen a continued divergence in favour of Bitcoin.

Get Into Cryptocurrency Trading Today

BTC/USD 19/04/18 Hourly Chart More

At the time of writing, Bitcoin was up just 0.22% to $8,188.9, with the Bitcoin bulls looking to make up some ground on Bitcoin Cash through the morning.

It’s been a choppy start to the day, with Bitcoin falling to a morning low $8,032.2 in the first hour, before a bounce to an 8,284.9 morning high, the moves leaving the day’s major support and resistance levels untested early on.

Following Wednesday’s price action and Bitcoin’s failure to catch up with its peers through the day, investors may begin to turn fickle and look elsewhere for more sizeable rallies that could continue to pin back any more substantial gains in Bitcoin, though for now Bitcoin will likely catch up, investors yet to fully differentiate the cryptocurrencies by product offering and performance.

For the day ahead, a move through to $8,250 levels would support the start of a rally, any failure to move through to $8,250 levels and a run at the day’s first major resistance level of $8,314.3 likely to lead to a pullback later in the day, bringing sub-$8,000 support levels into play.

Bitcoin’s near-term bullish trend, formed at 6th April’s swing lo $6,500.2 remains intact, but a move back through to Sunday’s swing hi 8,458.8 is going to be needed to continue drawing investors back in.

Buy & Sell Cryptocurrency Instantly

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE:Key Highlights

Cardano’s ADA slid 6.21% on Tuesday, partially reversing Monday’s 13.27% gain, to end the day at $0.2415.

An intraday high $0.285 broke through the day’s first major resistance level of $0.2736 to test the 2 nd support level of $0.2901.

support level of $0.2901. An end of the day $0.24155 low held above the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2309 and first major support level of $0.2260, leaving support levels untested through the day.

How to Buy Cardano (ADA) The Complete Guide

Cardano’s ADA Price Resistance

The morning’s intraday high broke through the day’s first major resistance level of $0.2736 before facing strong resistance at the 2nd resistance level of $0.2901, with a 2nd day of negative sentiment across the broader market ultimately pinning Cardano’s ADA back from a second day of solid gains.

While Cardano’s ADA managed to hold above key support levels through the middle of the day, the late in the day sell-off seen across the broader cryptomarket weighed, with Cardano’s ADA falling in the final hours of the day to an intraday low $0.24155.

For the market bulls, the good news that supports levels were not tested, with buyer appetite at the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2309 likely to have been on the weaker side, when considering sentiment across the broader market, which could have seen Cardano’s ADA take a big hit on the day.

Monday’s 13.27% trend-bucking rally came off the back of news that Cardano’s ADA trade pairings on Binance would be expanded to include BNB and USDT, the crypto exchanges continuing to have ultimate influence on the direction of the coins, as Ripple’s XRP investors discovered on a number of occasions.

Being added to an exchange tends to have far longer lasting effects than having additional two additional trade pairings included on an exchange.

At the time of writing, Cardano’s ADA was up 3.91% to $0.251, with the broad-based market rally of last week resuming after a number of soft days.

An intraday high $0.25329 struck in the last hour came up short of the day’s first major resistance level of $0.2638 in what had been a relatively choppy start to the day, a morning $0.24141 low coming at the start of the day being followed up with a number of pullbacks to test buyer appetite at the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2431 through the morning.

For the day ahead, a move through the morning’s high $0.25329 to the first major resistance level of $0.2638 would support another run at Tuesday’s $0.275 high, though market sentiment will need to continue to be upbeat through the 2nd half of the day, else a reversal at the first major resistance level will be likely, which could see Cardano’s ADA pullback to the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2431.

Bitcoin will be the barometer for market sentiment later in the day, any pullback in Bitcoin likely to be felt by Cardano’s ADA, though for now, the bullish trend formed at the 6th April $0.14 remains firmly intact, the news wires having provided little for investors to get nervous about.

Cardano 1H Chart More

Looking at the Technical Indicators

Major Support Level: $0.2304

Major Resistance Level: $0.2638

Fib 23.6% Retracement Level: $0.2431

Fib 38% Retracement Level: $0.2234

Fib 62% Retracement Level: $0.1916

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE:Bitcoin slipped a further 2.25% on Tuesday, adding to Monday’s 3.43% slide, to end the day at $7,874.8, fully reversing Sunday’s 4.41% rally.

While Bitcoin managed to hit $8,000 levels through the day, it was the first sub-$8,000 close since Friday, with investors likely to have been disappointed by the lack of a predicted rally on the day of the U.S tax deadline.

Following a relatively subdued start to the day that saw Bitcoin hover around the $8,000 mark, a late morning rally took Bitcoin through to an intraday high $8,185 to break clear of the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57.

The $8,185 high fell well short of the day’s first major resistance level of $8,357.57, leaving Bitcoin with a sideways move through the middle part of the day before pulling back to an intraday low $7,823, falling through the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57, which had provided much needed support in the early part of the day, to test support at the day’s first major support level of $7,842.37.

Bitcoin’s finish at below the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level could signal an end to the near-term bullish trend formed back at 6th March’s swing lo $6,500.2, today’s moves key to Bitcoin’s week and sentiment towards the broader market.

A lack of a bullish rally late in the day to signal the passing of the U.S tax deadline will raise some questions over the cause of the 1st quarter slide, the payment of U.S taxes alone unlikely to have been the reason, though with talks of the Rothschilds and Soros now looking at the cryptomarket, there’s plenty of other fish in the sea to support a Bitcoin rebound.

Some positive chatter from IMF Head Lagarde on blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies in general was well received, supporting Bitcoin through the middle part of the day, though nothing new, with Lagarde unlikely to be of influence when regulators and governments finalize their plans for Crypto oversight.

Get Into Cryptocurrency Trading Today

BTC/USD 18/04/18 Hourly Chart More

At the time of writing, Bitcoin was up just 0.09% to $7,896.2, coming up short of $8,000 levels in the early part of the morning, with an intraday high $7,959.8.

The morning’s $7,870.5 low saw Bitcoin hold off from testing the day’s first major support level of $7,736.87, while calling on buy support as Bitcoin slid through the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57.

With the sentiment across the broader market upbeat, in spite of Bitcoin’s slow start to the day, we would expect Bitcoin to move back through to $8,000 levels this morning and take a run at the day’s first major resistance level of $8,098.87.

Bitcoin could find increased demand through the latter part of the day should there be an influx in demand from the U.S, with regulator chatter having been on the quieter side of late, allowing the cryptos to recover some of the year’s losses.

Failure to test the first major resistance level could see a pullback to this morning’s lows, with market sentiment to dictate whether buyer appetite can hold Bitcoin above the day’s first major support level of $7,736.87 late in the day.

We will expect Bitcoin to catch up with the broader market, which should be a boost all-round.

Buy & Sell Cryptocurrency Instantly

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE:Before a U.S. farm voluntarily recalled 207 million eggs, government inspectors found rodents scurrying in manure pits, equipment that was coated with grime and food debris, and outside a swarm of “large flying insects too numerous to count.”

Unsanitary conditions were found during multiple inspections of a Rose Acre Farms facility in Hyde County, N.C., that allowed for the “proliferation and spread of filth and pathogens throughout the facility that could cause the contamination of egg processing equipment and eggs,” according to a report from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration detailing inspections. A review of the farm’s pest control records flagged an ongoing rodent infestation, with rodents, dead carcasses and baby mice observed, along with workers who weren’t following proper sanitary practices.

The farm voluntarily recalled the eggs earlier last week after more than 20 consumers became ill from a suspected salmonella poisoning. The recall is the largest of eggs in the U.S. since 2010, when more than 550 million were recalled from two Iowa farms, according to the website Food Safety News.

The FDA’s inspection report “is based on raw observations and in some cases lack proper context,” Gene Grabowski, an outside spokesman for Rose Acre Farms, said in an email. The company is preparing a formal response to the report and “until then, we would urge everyone to wait until all the facts are presented before rushing to judgment.”

‘Debris and Grime’

Throughout a March 28 review, federal inspectors “observed condensation dripping from the ceiling, pipes and down walls onto production equipment” and pooling on floors, the FDA said. Employees were found in violation of proper sanitary procedures, and a steel wool scrubber used to clean debris off equipment was stored on a cart in a dustpan that had a pool of water “floating with debris and grime.”

On one visit, inspectors saw “at least 25 flying insects” in the egg processing facility landing on food, food production equipment and contact surfaces, according to the report.

The company voluntarily recalled the eggs after an investigation of illnesses on the East Coast triggered an inspection of the facility. The recall is equivalent to about 90 days of output at the farm, which produces 2.3 million eggs a day.On paper, most analysts will agree that Activision Blizzard, Inc. (NASDAQ:ATVI) is enjoying a solid start to this year. Against the January opener, ATVI stock has gained nearly 9%. Given that the year is still relatively young, this consistently hot performer has enough time to make up some ground. Yet trouble is looming over the horizon for ATVI.

Despite Activision’s immense reputation in delivering the most compelling first-person shooter games, another company has unexpectedly taken its throne.

Epic Games’ runaway hit, Fortnite, is all anyone can talk about these days. Even those who are not necessarily known for their gaming exploits, such as the musician Drake, jumped on the bandwagon. The momentum has ATVI worried.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

At first, Fortnite was a fad, a strong blip on the radar, but a blip nonetheless. But it quickly gained steam and never let go. Last month, CNBC claimed that the upstart shoot-em-up game wiped out $6 billion of market value from ATVI stock.

But it’s not just ATVI feeling the heat. Long-time rivals such as Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc (NASDAQ:TTWO), which has many gritty, violent titles similar to Activision Blizzard, is down 9% year-to-date. And while Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ:EA) has weathered the storm better than its peers, it too is not exempt.

From a nearer-term perspective, ATVI stock appears to be forming a bearish head-and-shoulders pattern. Given Fortnite’s massive success, I don’t think this is a coincidence. If I was a gambling man, I’d bet that ATVI will suffer some volatility before its situation improves.

But believe me — in the long run, it will improve. ATVI stock is a proven commodity. Fortnite is not.

ATVI Stock Is Down, Not Out

If you’re an Activision shareholder, it’s difficult not to be intimated with Fortnite’s success. Unlike other smash hits, this game has been a top performer for several months. In addition, its development team introduced updates to a deeply-appreciative fan base, and expansion to other platforms are underway.

But what makes Fortnite tick? Industry experts claim that the general audience format maximizes popularity. Unlike other first-person shooters which feature realistic violence, Fortnite utilizes colorful, vibrant graphics and over-the-top characters. The fantasy element and the fun gameplay — not the realism — is the focus.

While this hit title certainly has broader appeal than many ATVI games, that’s not what makes it special. Initially, Epic Games released Fortnite as a stand-alone game for consoles and computers. The original version was well-received, but not to the degree currently witnessed.

It was another title under Epic Games, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, that sparked Fortnite’s success. Introducing a “Battle Royale” mode where players fight to the death until a single person or team remains, Battlegrounds quickly captured gamers’ attention. Sensing a new trend, Epic integrated the Battle Royale mode to Fortnite. The rest is history.

To be sure, it’s an amazing story. However, it’s also a replicable one, which is why I’m not giving up on ATVI stock. Thanks to its wealth of gaming know-how, it won’t take long for Activision to introduce a new twist to this craze.

From what I can tell, this single gaming mode is all it took to transform a good game into a pop-culture phenomenon. Otherwise, from a graphics or general gameplay perspective, you can’t tell the difference between “regular” Fortnite and the popular version.

Again, this bodes well for ATVI stock. The company doesn’t have to reinvent the wheel: It just needs to make a better one.

ATVI Is the Real Deal

I’ll concede that Epic has turned the gaming world upside down. It truly hit it out of the park with its addictive first-person shooter. But in the internet age, all fads eventually fade.

When you consider prior gaming crazes that eventually collapsed, its search interest charts resemble a stock market crash: a massive spike up, followed by rapid decompression. So far, Fortnite is bucking the trend by lasting longer than other fads. However, this industry is notorious for having a short attention span. If Epic doesn’t produce a follow-up, it will instead suffer an epic fail.

In sharp contrast, ATVI is the real deal. Forget months. Activision has been delivering immensely popular first-person shooters since the turn of the century. In such a fickle industry, a proven track record is worth its weight in gold.

As of this writing, Josh Enomoto did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Activision Blizzard, Inc. Will Finish What ‘Fortnite’ Started appeared first on InvestorPlace.CNBC's Morgan Brennan talks with Blue Origin CEO Bob Smith about the company's new engine for it's latest suborbital rocket and new opportunities in space exploration.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos revealed Wednesday that there are more than 100 million global subscribers to Amazon Prime, the company’s membership program.

“In 2017 Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year – both worldwide and in the U.S,” Bezos said in his annual letter to shareholders, which was published Wednesday. Amazon had not previously revealed the number of Prime members.

Bezos said more new Prime members joined on Prime Day 2017 than on any other day in the company’s history. That day also set a sales record for the e-commerce giant.

Prime members pay a monthly fee of $12.99 or an annual fee of $99, and receive access to free two-day shipping, free same-day delivery and Prime Video streaming, among other program benefits. Amazon expanded Prime to Mexico, Singapore, the Netherlands and Luxembourg in 2017, Bezos said.FILE PHOTO: A logo of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC) is seen at its headquarters in Hsinchu, Taiwan October 5, 2017. REUTERS/Eason Lam/File Photo

By Sonam Rai

(Reuters) - Shares in Apple Inc and its suppliers fell on Thursday after a raft of analysts read a prediction of softer smartphone sales from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd <2330.TW> as driven chiefly by concern about demand for iPhones.

TSMC, the world's largest contract chipmaker and a major Apple supplier, revised its full-year revenue target to the low end of its earlier forecast.

"Apple represents nearly 20 percent of TSMC's revenue so the outlook potentially points to weaker-than-anticipated iPhone demand," Atlantic Equities analyst James Cordwell told Reuters.

Others, some asking not to be quoted, said baldly that the warning was "exactly" about Apple.

Mizuho Securities USA said in a client note that its checks continue to point to soft demand for iPhone X, the Cupertino-based firm's tenth anniversary phone released last November, in addition to a steady fall in iPhone 8 and 8 Plus orders.

Apple's shares were last down 2.5 percent and were the biggest drag on the tech-heavy Nasdaq index.

Shares of Apple suppliers including Qualcomm Inc , Intel Corp , Qorvo Inc , Skyworks Solutions Inc and Broadcom Inc fell by 2 percent to 5 percent.

"Until the new iPhones in the Fall start driving the production food chain in Q3, mobile's going to be weak," Elazar Advisors analyst Chaim Siegel said.

TSMC, also a supplier to Qualcomm and Nvidia Corp , said it expects growth this year of 5 percent for the global semiconductor industry, weaker than an earlier forecast of 5-7 percent.

Data provider TrendForce had earlier estimated 2018 global smartphone production at around 1.5 billion units, 2.8 percent up on 2017 but down from a previously expected 5 percent.

TSMC on Thursday estimated 8 percent growth for contract chipmakers, compared with its previous forecast of 9-10 percent.

U.S.-listed shares of TSMC were down 6 percent, while other chip equipment makers such as Applied Materials Inc and Lam Research Corp fell about 5 percent and ASML Holding NV lost 3.6 percent.

Another big industry bellwether, chip equipment maker Lam Research, said on Wednesday its shipments missed consensus estimates for the first time in five years.

Chipmakers Analog Devices Inc , Micron Technology and Xilinx Inc were also down by 3 percent to 4 percent.

(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Maju Samuel and Patrick Graham)Stocks took a breather on Thursday, with Apple (AAPL) and chip stocks leading the way down.

Shares of the iPhone maker dropped 2.8% on Thursday after Apple’s largest chipmaker, Taiwan Semiconductor, offered poor guidance citing soft demand for smartphones. An ETF which tracks semiconductor stocks dropped over 4% on the day.

Apple’s drop and the decline other chip names like Intel (INTC), Nvidia (NVDA), and Micron (MU), saw the tech-heavy Nasdaq serve as the laggard Thursday, falling 0.8%, or 57 points.

The Dow dropped 83 points, or 0.3%, and the S&P 500 lost 15 points, or 0.6%. Stocks moved off their lows of the day late in the sessions after a report from Bloomberg said President Donald Trump isn’t likely to fire special counsel Robert Mueller after Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told Trump he is not a target of Mueller’s investigation.

A report from The Washington Post late Thursday said Rudy Giuliani, former mayor of New York and a close confidant of Trump, would join Trump’s legal team to “negotiate an end” to the Mueller probe.

Donald Trump, right, and former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani pose for photographs as Giuliani arrives at the Trump National Golf Club Bedminster clubhouse in Bedminster, N.J. Giuliani is joining the legal team defending President Donald Trump in the special counsel’s Russia investigation. That’s according to a statement from Trump personal attorney Jay Sekulow. (AP Photo/Carolyn Kaster) More

With political news likely to be making waves both in markets and abroad, the earnings calendar on Friday will bring a few big names reporting earnings from both the industrial and banking sectors, with Honeywell (HON), Waste Management (WM), Schlumberger (SLB), SunTrust (STI), State Street (STT), and Kansas City Southern (KSU).

And on the economic data calendar, no major data is set for release.

It’s Jeff Bezos’ world. We’re just living in it.

On Wednesday, Jeff Bezos, the founder and CEO of Amazon (AMZN), published his 20th letter to Amazon shareholders.

The headline from this letter was the big reveal that Amazon has more than 100 million Prime subscribers around the world. Shares of Amazon gained nearly 2% on Thursday amid a sell-off in the market following this news.

But the letter also contained insight from Bezos on how he tries to run a company is the unquestioned leader of an e-commerce category that has grown from almost non-existent in 1997 to a landscape-changing force today and made him the richest man in the world.

And it is these letters that captures the transition which has made Bezos, in my view, the logical heir to Warren Buffett as the singular leader of American business.

Warren Buffett (L) and Jeff Bezos. More

For the last few decades, Buffett, the CEO of Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-A, BRK-B), has served as something like the spokesperson for American business. When the country needed a voice to calm its collective nerves in the thick of the financial crisis, it was Buffett who published an op-ed in The New York Times.

But Buffett’s fortune was amassed picking stocks during the post-World War II boom that saw the U.S. markets and economy flourish. His annual letters are some of the most widely-read pieces of market commentary each year.

And these letters will be read for generations by investors trying to understand what the Oracle of Omaha valued and recognized in the businesses he purchased which helped his company’s stock compound at over 20% a year for five decades.

In our current moment, however, when the distinction between the “internet economy” and just the regular old business world becomes increasingly irrelevant, it is Jeff Bezos that pushes forward the business leadership of today and tomorrow.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos’s annual shareholder letter, released on Wednesday evening, included an unexpected reveal. He shared how many Amazon Prime members Amazon now has: 100 million.

So, 13 years after launching, Prime has 100 million paying members.

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos (Getty) More

Your first question might be to wonder how that number compares to other subscription services for streaming content.

To be sure, these are not apples-to-apples comparisons, since Prime is not only for video—in fact, it’s likely that the vast majority of Prime members pay for the service to get the shipping benefits, not for Prime Video. Nonetheless, it’s interesting to examine the numbers.

Graphic by TechCrunch for Oath More

Netflix has 125 million paying subscribers, Netflix just announced in its Q1 2018 earnings this week.

Spotify has 71 million people paying for its premium service, the company said last month before it went public.

Apple Music has 40 million paying subscribers in 115 countries, Apple digital chief Eddy Cue shared in an internal memo this month obtained by Variety.

Hulu, which is jointly owned by Time Warner, 21st Century Fox, Comcast, and Disney, had 17 million paying subscribers in the US across its video-on-demand and new live TV services, the company announced in January.

Amazon shares climbed 1.5% after Bezos’s letter was published.

—

Daniel Roberts covers tech and media at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter at @readDanwrite.

Read more:

ESPN’s new streaming service is aimed at a very specific kind of sports fan

How MLB’s streaming video arm got so big that Disney had to buy it

Amazon Prime, YouTube TV are in a sports streaming race

What Disney will do with Fox’s regional sports networks

Amazon’s NFL streaming is all about collecting ad dataAmazon says it has more than 100 million Prime members

(Reuters) - Amazon Inc <AMZN.O> said on Wednesday it now has more than 100 million Amazon Prime members globally.

Chief Executive officer Jeff Bezos informed shareholders Amazon Music now has tens of millions of paid customers, with Amazon Music Unlimited expanding to more than 30 new countries in 2017.

Bezos said Prime Now, a service that offers free delivery within two hours, is now available in more than 50 cities spanning nine countries.

Shares of the ecommerce giant, which have risen about 69 percent in the last 12 months, rose 1.3 percent in after-market trading.





(Reporting by Gaurika Juneja in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)Waste gas burns from a torch column at PKN Orlen SA's oil refinery in Plock, Poland, on Friday, Aug. 1, 2014. PKN Orlen, Poland's biggest oil company, posted a record quarterly loss after writing down the value of its refiners in Lithuania and the Czech Republic. Photographer: Bartek Sadowski

The same day Linn Energy Inc. exited bankruptcy, it awarded Chief Executive Officer Mark Ellis a $60 million compensation package, more than three times the amount Exxon Mobil Corp. paid its CEO.

Ellis’s pay included an equity grant worth $58 million, split between restricted shares and so-called Class B units, which are classified as profit interests for tax purposes, according to a regulatory filing Wednesday. Both vest in increments over four years, but the units are deliverable only when Linn’s equity value exceeds $2 billion. That condition has already been satisfied, the filing said.

The Houston-based exploration and production company exited Chapter 11 protection in February of last year. The collapse in oil and gas prices that begun in 2014 sent the firm reeling after 62 transactions over the previous decade had ballooned its debt load to about $4 billion .

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump and Kim May Meet in Sweden or Switzerland, Sources Say

Ellis, who’s led the company since 2010, also received $900,000 in salary and a $1.04 million bonus. Chief Financial Officer David Rottino and Chief Operating Officer Arden Walker each received awards of $24.7 million. The company didn’t immediately respond to an email and phone call seeking comment.

For the first year on the job, Exxon CEO Darren Woods made $17.5 million. His pay consisted of a $1.2 million salary, $1.85 million cash bonus and performance shares valued at $10.8 million.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read CEO Awarded $60 Million to Lead Linn Energy Firm Past Bankruptcy on bloomberg.comAn AT&T Inc. executive told a judge that the company’s contentious relationship with Comcast Corp. is evidence that the two rivals wouldn’t coordinate to withhold content from upstart distributors if AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner Inc. goes through, as the U.S. claims.

John Stankey, who leads AT&T’s merger-integration team and will oversee Time Warner if the $85 billion deal closes, testified Wednesday in federal court in Washington that dealing with Comcast’s dishonest claims about AT&T in some advertisements is like “playing whack-a-mole.”

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump and Kim May Meet in Sweden or Switzerland, Sources Say

“I’m not going to cooperate with someone I don’t like,” Stankey said under questioning by Daniel Petrocelli, the lead attorney for AT&T and Time Warner in the government’s lawsuit to block the deal. Stankey also said that coordinating with Comcast would be detrimental to AT&T’s plans to innovate. “We don’t want to cooperate with Comcast and play their game,” he said.

Stankey, who said the merger would result in $2.5 billion in annual synergies, denied another key claim in the Justice Department’s lawsuit: that the combined company would use access to Time Warner’s popular HBO network to punish distributors who asked for arbitration in programming talks under a proposed deal to gain support for the merger.

More from Bloomberg.com: Jet Engine That Exploded Had Metal Weakness Signs, U.S. Says

“We clearly had no interest whatsoever in doing anything the government alleges,” said Stankey, who led AT&T’s acquisition of DirecTV in 2015. “That just isn’t gonna happen.”

More from Bloomberg.com

Read AT&T's Merger Boss Mocks U.S. Claim About Comcast Coordination on bloomberg.comInside the Q1 earnings of banking stocks and their impact on financial ETFs.

Shares of several major semiconductor industry stocks were down in early morning trading Wednesday after the latest quarterly earnings reports from equipment suppliers ASML Holding ASML and Lam Research LRCX caused hesitation.

Nevertheless, there were plenty of positives to take away from both of these reports. Lam Research surpassed estimates on the top and bottom lines, reporting total revenue growth of 34.2% on 19% higher shipments.

Dutch equipment maker ASML also posted earnings and revenue beats. The firm also notched net sales growth of 35.7% and adjusted earnings growth of 12.3%. However, ASML said it expects gross profit margin to slip to about 43% in the second quarter from 48.7% in the first quarter.

Lam Research investors might also be concerned about slumping margins. The company said non-GAAP gross margin for the March quarter was down about 80 basis points from the previous quarter to 46.8%, and it expects that figure to fall in the range of 46.5% to 48.5% for the current quarter.

Lam also mentioned that it expects shipments to be between $2.85 billion and $3.15 billion in the quarter, which is slightly sluggish compared to the $3.13 billion in shipments witnessed during the March period.

Overall, Lam Research guided for adjusted earnings in the range of $4.80 to $5.20 per share and revenue of $2.95 to $3.25 billion—both of which exceeded our previous consensus estimates.

Still, both LRCX and ASML were met with volatility on Wednesday morning. Lam Research opened lower and quickly dipped to an intraday low of $196.50 per share, down about 7.5% from Tuesday’s close. ASML shares slumped as much as $9.70, or 4.6%, in early trading hours.

Analysts were quick to declare Lam Research’s post-earnings selloff a buying opportunity, with teams from Evercore ISI, Stifel, and B. Riley FBR all maintaining bullish stances.

“At or near $200, we are buyers all day long,” Evercore said in a note. “Put simply, the cost of adding each new memory bit is rising significantly across both DRAM and NAND, which should sustain elevated WFE for years to come.”

Stifel elaborated further, saying Lam Research’s shipments outlook “could embolden bears who believe we are at the 'peak' of the cycle and in particular, on the memory front, where there are concerns on oversupply and overcapacity,” but reiterated its buy rating for the stock.

But mixed reactions to the reports were enough to inspire selling throughout the semiconductor space early Wednesday morning. Shares of Micron MU opened lower before surging back to Tuesday’s close, Texas Instruments TXN was down as much as 1%, and Applied Materials AMAT dipped nearly 5%.

Overall, the iShares PHLX Semiconductor ETF SOXX slumped $25.77, or 1.9%, to a mid-morning low of $1331.95 per share. However, the fund bounced of this daily low around 10:30 am EST.

Want more market analysis from this author? Make sure to follow @Ryan_McQueeney on Twitter!

Can Hackers Put Money INTO Your Portfolio?

Earlier this year, credit bureau Equifax announced a massive data breach affecting 2 out of every 3 Americans. The cybersecurity industry is expanding quickly in response to this and similar events. But some stocks are better investments than others.

Zacks has just released Cybersecurity! An Investor’s Guide to help Zacks.com readers make the most of the $170 billion per year investment opportunity created by hackers and other threats. It reveals 4 stocks worth looking into right away.

Download the new report now>>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



ISHARS-PHLX SEM (SOXX): ETF Research Reports



Texas Instruments Incorporated (TXN) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Micron Technology, Inc. (MU) : Free Stock Analysis Report



ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Lam Research Corporation (LRCX) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Applied Materials, Inc. (AMAT) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchInvestors are always looking for stocks that are poised to beat at earnings season and Danaher Corporation DHR may be one such company. The firm has earnings coming up pretty soon, and events are shaping up quite nicely for their report.



That is because Danaher is seeing favorable earnings estimate revision activity as of late, which is generally a precursor to an earnings beat. After all, analysts raising estimates right before earnings—with the most up-to-date information possible—is a pretty good indicator of some favorable trends underneath the surface for DHR in this report.



Analysts have very recently bumped up their estimates for DHR, giving the stock a Zacks Earnings ESP of +1.45% heading into earnings season.



Danaher Corporation Price and EPS Surprise

Danaher Corporation Price and EPS Surprise | Danaher Corporation Quote

Why is this Important?



A positive reading for the Zacks Earnings ESP has proven to be very powerful in producing both positive surprises, and outperforming the market. Our recent 10 year backtest shows that stocks that have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better show a positive surprise nearly 70% of the time, and have returned over 28% on average in annual returns (see more Top Earnings ESP stocks here).



Given that DHR has a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) and an ESP in positive territory, investors might want to consider this stock ahead of earnings. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.



Clearly, recent earnings estimate revisions suggest that good things are ahead for Danaher, and that a beat might be in the cards for the upcoming report.



Can Hackers Put Money INTO Your Portfolio?



Earlier this year, credit bureau Equifax announced a massive data breach affecting 2 out of every 3 Americans. The cybersecurity industry is expanding quickly in response to this and similar events. But some stocks are better investments than others.



Zacks has just released Cybersecurity! An Investor’s Guide to help Zacks.com readers make the most of the $170 billion per year investment opportunity created by hackers and other threats. It reveals 4 stocks worth looking into right away.

Download the new report now>>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Danaher Corporation (DHR) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchDanaher (DHR) reports an impressive first-quarter 2018 adjusted earnings on the back of solid top-line growth.

Textron Inc. TXT, the aerospace and defense company is globally known for its most recognizable and valuable brand names such as the Bell Helicopter. This diversified U.S. conglomerate has a strong presence in diverse areas of business jets and other general aviation aircraft, helicopter and aircraft engines.

However, global political uncertainties and intensifying competition causes of concern.

Textron Inc. Price and EPS Surprise

Textron Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Textron Inc. Quote

Earnings Surprise History

Textron has reported a negative earnings surprise of 3.90% in the fourth quarter. However, the company reported positive earnings surprises in two of the last four quarters with an average positive surprise of 2.51%.

Zacks Rank

Currently, Textron has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), but that could definitely change following Textron’s first-quarter 2018 earnings report which was just released. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

We have mentioned below some of the vital information from this just-revealed announcement:

Earnings Beat: Our consensus called for first-quarter EPS of 46 cents, and the company reported EPS of 72 cents.

Revenue Beat: Textron posted revenues of $3.30 billion in first-quarter, compared to our consensus estimate of $3.11 billion.

Key Developments to Note

Textron has reiterated its guidance for 2018. The company continues to expect 2018 earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $2.95 - $3.15 per share.

Stock Price: Following the earnings release, share prices for the company made no significant change in the pre-market trading session.

Check back later for our full write up on this Textron earnings report later!

Can Hackers Put Money INTO Your Portfolio?



Earlier this year, credit bureau Equifax announced a massive data breach affecting 2 out of every 3 Americans. The cybersecurity industry is expanding quickly in response to this and similar events. But some stocks are better investments than others.



Zacks has just released Cybersecurity! An Investor’s Guide to help Zacks.com readers make the most of the $170 billion per year investment opportunity created by hackers and other threats. It reveals 4 stocks worth looking into right away.



Download the new report now>>





Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Textron Inc. (TXT) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchKraken co-founder and CEO Jesse Powell says the cryptocurrency exchange will not comply with the New York attorney general's request for information.Kraken CEO Jesse Powell had strong words for New York regulators who sought to compel the San Francisco-based exchange to participate in its new Virtual Market Integrity Initiative, which demands that trading platforms be more transparent.

Earlier this week, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman began an inquiry into the operations of popular cryptocurrency exchanges. As part of the probe, his office sent detailed, 34-point questionnaires to 13 different exchanges — including Kraken — who were instructed to complete the forms by the beginning of May.

Most exchanges responded positively to the letters, stating publicly that they were looking forward to cooperating with the AG’s inquiry and increasing transparency in the nascent space.

However, Powell — whose exchange ranks in the top 15 in daily trading volume — struck a much more critical tone in his remarks, which he published on Twitter.

He wrote:

“Kraken’s BitLicense-prompted exit from New York in 2015 pays another dividend today. When I saw this 34-point demand, with a deadline 2 weeks out, I immediately thought ‘The audacity of these guys — the entitlement, the disrespect for our business, our time! The resource diversion for this production is massive. This is going to completely blow up our roadmap!’ Then I realized that we made the right decision to get the hell out of New York three years ago and that we can dodge this bullet.”

As he alluded in his comments, Kraken ceased operations in New York in 2015 as part of the “Great Bitcoin Exodus” that occurred after the state’s Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) introduced the controversial BitLicense, which requires cryptocurrency companies to submit to a rigorous regulatory process before they can serve New York residents.

Powell said that Kraken is ordinarily quite open to helping regulators understand the exchange’s business operations, as well as the nascent cryptocurrency space writ-large. However, he criticized the AG’s “tone-deaf” approach, arguing that the state is a hostile environment for businesses.

“But when is it going to be enough for New York? We did all this once already, and then you gave us the BitLicense. Why don’t you try extracting this information from those businesses actually operating in your state? Kraken left New York because New York is hostile to crypto, and this ‘questionnaire’ we received today proves that New York is not only hostile to crypto, it is hostile to business,” he said.

He also blamed other cryptocurrency exchanges for “kowtowing” to the probe and others like it.

“Somebody has to say what everybody’s actually thinking about the NYAG’s inquiry. The placative kowtowing toward this kind of abuse sends the message that it’s ok. It’s not ok. It’s insulting,” he concluded. “Good luck New Yorkers.”

Featured image from YouTube/Economist Test Prep.



The post ‘Insulting’: Kraken CEO Refuses to Comply with New York’s Crypto Exchange Probe appeared first on CCN.

Investors in Facebook, Inc. FB need to pay close attention to the stock based on moves in the options market lately. That is because the Apr 20, 2018 $180 Call had some of the highest implied volatility of all equity options today.

What is Implied Volatility?

Implied volatility shows how much movement the market is expecting in the future. Options with high levels of implied volatility suggest that investors in the underlying stocks are expecting a big move in one direction or the other. It could also mean there is an event coming up soon that may cause a big rally or a huge sell-off. However, implied volatility is only one piece of the puzzle when putting together an options trading strategy.

What do the Analysts Think?

Clearly, options traders are pricing in a big move for Facebook shares, but what is the fundamental picture for the company? Currently, Facebook is a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) in the Internet - Services industry that ranks in the Bottom 37% of our Zacks Industry Rank. Over the last 30 days, no analysts have increased their earnings estimates for the current quarter, while four analysts have revised their estimate downward. The net effect has taken our Zacks Consensus Estimate for the current quarter from $1.37 per share to $1.36 in that period.

Given the way analysts feel about Facebook right now, this huge implied volatility could mean there’s a trade developing. Oftentimes, options traders look for options with high levels of implied volatility to sell premium. This is a strategy many seasoned traders use because it captures decay. At expiration, the hope for these traders is that the underlying stock does not move as much as originally expected.

Looking to Trade Options?

Each week, our very own Dave Bartosiak gives his top options trades. Check out his recent live analysis and options trade for the NFLX earnings report completely free. See it here: Trading Netflix's (NFLX) Earnings with Options or check out the embedded video below for more details:



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Facebook, Inc. (FB) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.CF Industries Holdings is one of the ten dividend stocks that can help raise your investment income by paying sizeable dividends. These stocks are a safe bet to increase your portfolio value as they provide both steady income and cushion against market risks. Dividends play an important role in compounding returns in the long run and end up forming a sizeable part of investment returns. Here are other similar dividend stocks that could be valuable additions to your current holdings.

CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:CF)

CF Industries Holdings, Inc. manufactures and distributes nitrogen fertilizers and other nitrogen products worldwide. Formed in 1946, and currently headed by CEO W. Will, the company currently employs 2,950 people and with the company’s market capitalisation at USD $9.12B, we can put it in the mid-cap group.

CF has a sizeable dividend yield of 3.07% and is distributing 78.27% of earnings as dividends . In the case of CF, they have increased their dividend per share from US$0.08 to US$1.20 so in the past 10 years. They have been dependable too, not missing a single payment in this time. Continue research on CF Industries Holdings here.

NYSE:CF Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

Alliant Energy Corporation (NYSE:LNT)

Alliant Energy Corporation operates as a utility holding company that provides regulated electricity and natural gas services in the Midwest region of the United States. Formed in 1917, and currently headed by CEO Patricia Kampling, the company provides employment to 3,989 people and with the stock’s market cap sitting at USD $9.69B, it comes under the mid-cap category.

LNT has a solid dividend yield of 3.20% and is distributing 63.48% of earnings as dividends . The company’s DPS has increased from US$0.70 to US$1.34 over the last 10 years. During this period, they haven’t missed a payment, as one would expect from a company increasing their dividend. Interested in Alliant Energy? Find out more here.

NYSE:LNT Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

L Brands, Inc. operates as a specialty retailer of women’s intimate and other apparel, beauty and personal care products, home fragrance products, and accessories. Formed in 1963, and currently run by Leslie Wexner, the company size now stands at 59,200 people and with the company’s market cap sitting at USD $10.10B, it falls under the large-cap stocks category.

Story ContinuesIncome investing and the tech industry might seem like polar opposites. Technology companies are typically home to groundbreaking innovations like artificial intelligence and self-driving cars. Their stocks are also the starting point for many investors seeking capital appreciation, but the area is largely ignored by income investors, in favor of more traditional dividend plays.

That doesn't mean that high-yielders can't be found among the tech giants, and investors may be doing themselves a disservice by bypassing the potential for significant growth while they receive their regular dividend payments.

With that in mind, we asked three Motley Fool investors to choose tech companies that pay a high yield, while offering the potential for additional growth. They offered convincing arguments for Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE: VZ), Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM), and International Business Machines (NYSE: IBM).

Man in a suit watering a plant shaped like an upward pointing arrow. The plant pot is surrounded by stacks of gold coins. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Let this stable dividend compound

Steve Symington (Verizon): With an annual dividend yield of 4.8%, supported by its status as the largest wireless carrier in the U.S., I think investors would do well to pick up shares of Verizon today.

Most recently, the company ended 2017 by adding 1.2 million retail postpaid wireless connections in the fourth quarter, bringing its total to 116.3 million. Verizon also maintained excellent customer loyalty with postpaid phone churn of 0.77%, the metric's 11th straight quarter below 0.9%. Combined with modest growth from its Fios segment -- where increases in Fios Internet customers have more than offset losses in Fios Video connections -- as well as sales from its Oath subsidiary, which encompasses more than 50 media and tech brands including Yahoo!, tumblr, TechCrunch, HuffPost, and AOL, management says investors can safely expect Verizon to deliver solid low-single-digit percent growth in both revenue and adjusted earnings this year.

And thanks to recent U.S. tax reform, Verizon estimates that its operating cash flow this year will benefit to the tune of $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion -- a sum it will use primarily to strengthen its balance sheet. This shouldn't be terribly surprising, as the company is investing heavily in the impending commercial launch of its 5G network set for later this year.

Three young people sitting next to each other, all texting. MoreThe SEADRILL 3, the first of four oil rigs that Keppel FELS is building for the same customer, is seen in Singapore in this April 21, 2006 file photo. REUTERS/Luis Enrique Ascui/Files

By Nerijus Adomaitis

OSLO (Reuters) - Offshore oil driller Seadrill plans to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in late June or early July to catch the rising wave of rig market activity, its chief executive told said on Wednesday.

The company won U.S. court approval on Tuesday for its multi-billion dollar debt restructuring plan after reaching a deal with more than 40 banks, unsecured creditors and shipyards.

"The confirmation is the most significant milestone in the process, and now we need to implement the plan over 60 to 90 days. Obviously, we would like to do it as fast as possible," CEO Anton Dibowitz told Reuters.

Seadrill plans to expand relations with Schlumberger, the world's largest oil services firm, and other suppliers to the global oil and gas industry, although the company had no immediate consolidation plans, he added.

Seadrill is already cooperating with Schlumberger in India to offer integrated drilling services.

"Equally, we are in discussions with all major oil service companies, and if there are opportunities that makes sense for both of us, we will certainly entertain that," Dibowitz said.

Seadrill was forced to seek bankruptcy court protection from creditors after a sharp drop in oil prices in 2014 cut oil firms' appetite for exploration, pushing rates for rigs down and leaving many idle.

Oil companies have since returned to the market, hiring rigs to explore for offshore oil and gas deposits after crude prices have traded above $60 a barrel since November. Brent was trading at $72 at 1303 GMT.

Out of 51 rig marketed by Seadrill, which include rigs owned by its non-consolidated entities, such as Seadrill Partners, 31 rigs are currently employed.

Seadrill said the approved plan, which extends maturities of $5.7 billion in bank debts, converts $2.3 billion of unsecured bonds to equity and injects $1 billion in new debt and equity, would enable the company to take advantage of a market recovery.

"We are fully confident that it (the drilling market) would recover within the next five years, and now we have a runway that we needed in order to see that," Dibowitz said.

Norwegian-born billionaire John Fredriksen will retain control of Seadrill with a stake of just under 30 percent in the restructured company, up from 24 percent previously.

Fredriksen, whose business empire includes the largest salmon farmer Marine Harvest and oil tanker firm Frontline, is committed to remaining a long-term stakeholder, Dibowitz said.

He added that Fredriksen "was absolutely integral to striking the deal with the banks, and I expect that he will continue to be the anchor shareholder going forward."

Dibowitz, Seadrill's CEO since July 2017, said he expected to remain at the helm of the company after its restructuring.





(Editing by Terje Solsvik and Edmund Blair)June E-mini Dow Jones Industrial Average futures are trading lower at the mid-session. Buyers failed for a second day to make a new high for the week, giving investors an excuse to take profits and play for a better entry price.

Daily June E-mini Dow Jones Industrial Average More

Daily Swing Chart Technical Analysis

The main trend is up according to the daily swing chart. A trade through 24827 will signal a resumption of the uptrend.

The market isn’t in any danger of turning the main trend to down, but there is room for a correction. Most of the selling today is related to profit-taking and position-squaring in response to rising U.S. Treasury yields.

Buyers face key retracement level resistance at 24867 and 24923. The latter is also a trigger point for an acceleration to the upside with plenty of room until the next resistance.

On the downside, potential support is 24684, 24569 and 24477.

The daily chart begins to open up to the downside under 24477 with 24157 the next likely target.

The new short-term range is 23306 to 24827. If the sell-off gains traction then its retracement level at 24067 to 23887 will become the primary downside target.

Daily Swing Chart Technical Forecast

Based on the early price action, the direction of the Dow today will be determined by trader reaction to the Fibonacci level at 24684.

A sustained move under 24684 will signal the presence of sellers. This could lead to a test of 24579 and 24477.

Look out to the downside if 24477 fails to hold.

Holding above 24684 will indicate the presence of buyers. This could lead to a retest of 24827 then 24867 and 24923.

The trigger point for a huge spike to the upside is 24923.

Don’t read too much into today’s weakness. It looks like normal profit-taking after a strong rally.

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE:Markets Insider





Shares of Helios & Matheson Information Technology, the parent company of MoviePass, sank more than 40% Thursday after the company announced it sold new stock at a hefty discount.

Helios & Matheson said in a regulatory filing late Wednesday that it had sold 10.5 million shares at a price of $2.75 — a hefty 28% discount form its closing price earlier that day of $3.83. When markets opened Thursday, the stock's price tanked.

The losses come at an inconvenient time for MoviePass, which is struggling to stay afloat amid heavy losses. Earlier this week, the company's auditor, Rosenberg Rich Baker Berman & Co., said it had "substantial doubt" that Movie Pass could stay in business after reporting a $150 million loss.

Helios & Matheson CEO Ted Farnsworth downplayed the significance of the "going concern" warning to Business Insider, saying such a warning was in "pretty much most" 10-K filings when a company is running at a loss. "If they don't raise money, they could go out of business," he continued.

Such statements, though, aren't triggered by a company's profits or losses. Instead, they reflect the auditor's view on how viable a company is in the year forward.

Since MoviePass dropped its subscription price to $9.95 a month last summer, which allows members to see one movie per day in theaters, it has shaken up the industry. It has attracted millions of new subscribers, but many have questioned how it will continue to sustain itself financially given that it's paying most theaters full price for movie tickets.

Still, Farnsworth remains committed to the portfolio company. "I'm the biggest fan because I see what's going on from the inside and what Mitch is creating here," he said.

Jason Guerrasio contributed to this report.

NOW WATCH: Wall Street's biggest bull explains why trade war fears are way overblown

See Also:

SEE ALSO: MoviePass' auditor says there's 'substantial doubt' about its ability to stay in business — as it reports a $150.8 million lossShares of Helios and Matheson Analytics, the majority owner of MoviePass, plummeted more than 40% in early trading Thursday after it announced the pricing of a $30 million public share offering.

Helios and Matheson, which owns 92% of the MoviePass upstart movie-theater subscription service, on Thursday said the offering comprised 10.5 million shares at $2.75 per share — 28.2% below Wednesday’s stock closing price of $3.83 per share.

Shares of Helios and Matheson, traded on the Nasdaq with the ticker symbol “HMNY,” have been extremely volatile. The stock is now trading at less than 8% of its 52-week high closing price of $32.90 per share, after opening Thursday at $2.48.

Earlier this week, HMNY stock rose more than 30% as investors latched on to Verizon’s disclosure of a 9.3% ownership stake in the company. HMNY had actually revealed the stock deal with Verizon on April 5, as part of Helios and Matheson’s acquisition of the Moviefone service from Verizon’s Oath unit.

Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Helios and Matheson disclosed that an independent auditor had raised “substantial doubt” about MoviePass’s ability to continue operating as “a going concern.” HMNY reported a loss of $150.8 million in 2017, which it attributed to its acquisition of MoviePass in August 2017, on revenue of $10.4 million.

In its announcement Thursday, Helios and Matheson said the offering of 10.5 million shares is expected to close on or about April 23, 2018. The company said it may use the net proceeds to increase its ownership stake in MoviePass “or to support the operations of MoviePass and MoviePass Ventures.” It also said it might use the expected funds to pay off debt, for “general corporate purposes and transaction expenses,” or to make other acquisitions.

Related stories

MoviePass Auditor Raises 'Substantial Doubt' About Subscription Business

MoviePass CEO Says Company Won't Sell User Data

The Great Disruptor: MoviePass Upends the Movie Business, but Can It Survive?

Subscribe to Variety Newsletters and Email Alerts!Shares of Helios and Matheson Analytics (NASDAQ: HMNY) are sinking on Thursday, heading sharply lower after the company announced it would sell up to $150 million in a secondary stock offering after Wednesday's market close. Once completed, the transaction will beef up the coffers of the company that's taking some big consolidated losses with its 92% stake in MoviePass, but it will also dramatically jack up its share count. It priced $30 million of the shares in a spot secondary at $2.75 on Thursday morning.

There are good reasons for a stock slipping after an ownership dilutive deal. There are even better ones for Helios and Matheson to be going this route. Let's go over why the MoviePass controlling stakeholder is trying to raise some money here.

Four people sitting on a couch on a stage to promote MoviePass and iHeart Radio at a film festival. More

Image source: MoviePass.

1. MoviePass is losing a lot of money

If MoviePass is a deal that seems too good to be true -- offering its more than 2 million members access to as much as a traditional screening of a movie per day for just $9.95 a month -- you're right. MoviePass pays retail for most of those tickets, so a subscriber is already running at a loss for the company even if they see a single movie in many cases. The country's leading exhibitor revealed late last year that it was collecting $11.88 per ticket from MoviePass.

Helios and Matheson argues that MoviePass will be able to offset its costs by selling the data that it's collecting, get paid to promote theatrical releases, and grab a piece of the multiplex action. It has already negotiated deals with smaller chains for as much as a 20% discount of the ticket prices. It's also hoping to score a portion of concession sales. Larger chains have not played along, but MoviePass' leverage should grow as its subscriber base climbs.

We've never had a clear snapshot of how much money MoviePass is losing, but we got closer this week. Helios and Matheson filed its annual report on Tuesday. It recorded a $150.8 million loss in 2017, but that didn't provide enough of a glimpse into the carnage. A lot of non-MoviePass items made up the lion's share of that hole. The MoviePass acquisition didn't hit the books until Dec. 11, with just three weeks to go in the fiscal year.

However, we got a clearer but still fuzzy admission of the related red ink in Wednesday night's offering filing. Helios and Matheson believes that its average cash deficit has been roughly $20 million per month from the end of September through the end of March. We're looking at roughly $120 million over the past six months, and that's a cash -- not fiscal -- deficit. The assumption here is that it's including all of the folks who have prepaid for several months or as long as a year of service, and MoviePass had $54.4 million in deferred revenue at the end of 2017. When you also consider that this is an inverted scalable model where it's losing more money the larger it grows (making the deficit much larger for March at the end of that six-month average than October at the beginning), this is probably a company losing a lot more than $20 million a month.

Helios and Matheson had $42 million in cash at the end of March. Even with access to credit, it can only be selling discounted annual subscriptions for so long before the cash crunch comes. The $150 million will help.Shares of General Electric GE surged nearly 2% in early morning trading Thursday, just one day before the embattled conglomerate is scheduled to release its latest quarterly earnings report. Investors will want to pay close attention to GE’s results on Friday morning as the iconic brand looks to rebuild confidence from the market.

Earnings growth is expected to be strong throughout the Q1 report season, but the tone surrounding General Electric is concern—not optimism. Mounting debt issues, sluggish performance in core brands, and regulatory headwinds have created a massive headache for the Boston-based company over the past year or so.

GE shares have already dropped another 20% since the start of 2018, and investors will be looking for any sort of rebound catalyst that they can find. But will there be something positive to discover when GE reports tomorrow? Let’s take a closer look.

Latest Outlook and Valuation

Based on our latest Zacks Consensus Estimates, we expect General Electric to report earnings of 11 cents per share and revenue of $27.9 billion. This top-line result would represent a modest year-over-year improvement of 0.8%, but our bottom-line estimate is calling for profits to slump about 47.6%. Investors should also recognize that this EPS estimate has trended down since the start of the quarter.

Heading into today, GE was trading with a Forward P/E of 14.0, which is a noticeable discount to its industry’s average of 17.7x. Within the past year, the stock has traded as high as 14.1x forward 12-month earnings and as low as 13.2x. Its median earnings multiple over that time is 13.5x. Investors will note that there has not been much movement in this key valuation metric for GE over this period.

Earnings ESP Whispers

Investors will also want to anticipate the likelihood that General Electric surprises investors with better-than-anticipated earnings results. For this, we turn to our Earnings ESP figure.

Zacks Earnings ESP (Expected Surprise Prediction) looks to find earnings surprises by focusing on the most recent analyst estimates. This is done because, generally speaking, when an analyst posts an estimate right before an earnings release, it means that they have fresh information which could potentially be more accurate than what analysts thought about a company two or three months ago.

A positive Earnings ESP paired with a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better ranking helps us feel confident about the potential for an earnings beat. In fact, our 10-year backtest has revealed that this methodology has accurately produced a positive surprise 70% of the time.

General Electric is currently holding a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) and an Earnings ESP of +5.3%. This mean that the most recent analyst estimates have been higher than the consensus. However, due to the stock’s weak Zacks Rank, our model is not conclusively calling for a beat.

Surprise History

Another important thing to consider ahead of General Electric’s report is the company’s history of earnings surprises and the effect that these surprises have had on share prices. We judge the price effect of these earnings beats by comparing the closing price of the stock two days before the report and two days after the report.GE has had an abysmal streak in this regard, moving lower within this window in nine consecutive quarters.

Story ContinuesU.S. stocks closed mixed on Wednesday after gaining over two consecutive winning sessions

Investors are always looking for stocks that are poised to beat at earnings season and Honeywell International Inc. HON may be one such company. The firm has earnings coming up pretty soon, and events are shaping up quite nicely for their report.

That is because Honeywellis seeing favorable earnings estimate revision activity as of late, which is generally a precursor to an earnings beat. After all, analysts raising estimates right before earnings — with the most up-to-date information possible — is a pretty good indicator of some favorable trends underneath the surface for HON in this report.

In fact, the Most Accurate Estimate for the current quarter is currently at $1.90 per share for HON, compared to a broader Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.89 per share. This suggests that analysts have very recently bumped up their estimates for HON, giving the stock a Zacks Earnings ESP of +0.46% heading into earnings season.

Honeywell International Inc. Price and EPS Surprise

Honeywell International Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Honeywell International Inc. Quote

Why is this Important?

A positive reading for the Zacks Earnings ESP has proven to be very powerful in producing both positive surprises, and outperforming the market. Our recent 10-year backtest shows that stocks that have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better show a positive surprise nearly 70% of the time, and have returned over 28% on average in annual returns (see more Top Earnings ESP stocks here).

Given that HON has a Zacks Rank #3 and an ESP in positive territory, investors might want to consider this stock ahead of earnings. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

Clearly, recent earnings estimate revisions suggest that good things are ahead for Honeywell, and that a beat might be in the cards for the upcoming report.

The Hottest Tech Mega-Trend of All

Last year, it generated $8 billion in global revenues. By 2020, it's predicted to blast through the roof to $47 billion. Famed investor Mark Cuban says it will produce "the world's first trillionaires," but that should still leave plenty of money for regular investors who make the right trades early.

See Zacks' 3 Best Stocks to Play This Trend >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Honeywell International Inc. (HON) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchInvestors are always looking for stocks that are poised to beat at earnings season and Brown & Brown, Inc. BRO may be one such company. The firm has earnings coming up pretty soon, and events are shaping up quite nicely for their report.



That is because Brown & Brown is seeing favorable earnings estimate revision activity as of late, which is generally a precursor to an earnings beat. After all, analysts raising estimates right before earnings—with the most up-to-date information possible—is a pretty good indicator of some favorable trends underneath the surface for BRO in this report.



Analysts have very recently bumped up their estimates for BRO, giving the stock a Zacks Earnings ESP of +1.72% heading into earnings season.

Brown & Brown, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise

Brown & Brown, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Brown & Brown, Inc. Quote

Why is this Important?



A positive reading for the Zacks Earnings ESP has proven to be very powerful in producing both positive surprises, and outperforming the market. Our recent 10 year backtest shows that stocks that have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better show a positive surprise nearly 70% of the time, and have returned over 28% on average in annual returns (see more Top Earnings ESP stocks here).



Given that BRO has a Zacks Rank #3 and an ESP in positive territory, investors might want to consider this stock ahead of earnings. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.



Clearly, recent earnings estimate revisions suggest that good things are ahead for Brown & Brown, and that a beat might be in the cards for the upcoming report.



The Hottest Tech Mega-Trend of All



Last year, it generated $8 billion in global revenues. By 2020, it's predicted to blast through the roof to $47 billion. Famed investor Mark Cuban says it will produce "the world's first trillionaires," but that should still leave plenty of money for regular investors who make the right trades early.



See Zacks' 3 Best Stocks to Play This Trend >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Brown & Brown, Inc. (BRO) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.FILE PHOTO - Visitors pass in front of the Chinese telecoms equipment group ZTE Corp booth at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, February 26, 2018. REUTERS/Sergio Perez/File Photo

By Olof Swahnberg and Eric Auchard

STOCKHOLM/LONDON (Reuters) - Investors are warming to beleaguered mobile network makers Ericsson and Nokia as they begin to recover ahead of a once-a-decade uplift from a new business cycle and an unexpected boost from a U.S. ban on exports to low-cost Chinese rival ZTE.

ZTE has snatched market share in Europe and the Americas, growing four times faster in those markets last year than it did its home market and acting as a drag on contract pricing and revenue growth for Ericsson and Nokia.

But now, ZTE has been slapped with a potentially devastating seven-year export ban. It has yet to say how it may respond to U.S. threats to cut off its supply chain.

Ericsson is due to report results on Friday and Nokia next Thursday and the focus is likely to be on next-generation 5G network upgrades expected to start later in 2018 or during 2019, ending a three-to-four year dry spell in network spending.

ZTE, meanwhile, has postponed its own quarterly results announcement, which was due on Thursday.

Ericsson shares are up 3 percent in April while Nokia has gained 6 percent.

Bengt Nordstrom, head of telecoms consultancy Northstream, said it could take several months for ZTE to find alternative suppliers and redesign its products, including optical and mobile gear. "This is a very serious setback for ZTE," he said.

Whether or not a Commerce Department ban on U.S. firms supplying components to ZTE holds up, Ericsson and Nokia still face a tough year ahead amid weak overall market demand as telecom operators keep a tight lid on network capital spending.

Three big players dominate the global market for mobile network gear: Huawei, of China, is the biggest, followed closely by Ericsson and Nokia. Complicating the picture is that Huawei [HWT.UL] and Nokia have more revenue from serving other telecom segments.

The three face competition from ZTE and Korean electronics giant Samsung Electronics, a relative newcomer to the network gear market, and a growing number of more focused software and services challengers.

MODEST REBOUND

Quarterly financial reports for the European names are likely to deliver only muted signs of recovery, even if prospects seem to be brightening further out.

"No one on this planet is ready to break the bank for 5G, even less so with a total lack of 5G business cases," IHS Markit mobile equipment analyst Stephane Teral told Reuters. Even when 5G hits its stride sometime next decade, he warns that capital spending may never return to 4G peak levels of 2015.

Revenue for Europe's two big network gear suppliers remains under pressure in 2018, even if they are making progress towards seeing growth stabilize in 2019, analysts at UBS said, adding this is "more so for Nokia than Ericsson, where there remains much work to be done to rationalize contracts".

Sweden's Ericsson has made sweeping cost cuts, changed most of its management and is focusing on profitability over growth.

Ericsson has spied signs of recovery in a few key markets but cautions that it has more work to do in order to hit profit improvement targets it has pledged to deliver by 2020. A Reuters poll shows that analysts, on average, expect sales to fall 9 percent in the first quarter, with its main networks business declining 11 percent.

Nokia has said it expects its results to bottom this year, and has forecast a recovery in profits by 2020, encouraging investors spooked last year by the general decline in global network spending and acquisition integration missteps.

Most analysts see Nokia recovering faster than Ericsson, which, in a nutshell, is why Nokia shares are up 22 percent so far this year, while Ericsson is up just 1 percent, after the latest in a string of downbeat quarterly reports in January.

Northern Trust analyst Gary Paulin considers Nokia an especially safe bet in a volatile tech market, classifying it as a "fallen angel" - a cheap stock that has suffered a round of setbacks but is on the mend, ready to demonstrate its underlying earnings power once its short-term issues resolve.

By contrast, Credit Suisse says stock market expectations are still too high for Ericsson, which it says will underperform the market due to execution risks from its ongoing restructuring and slower than expected benefits from 5G adoption.

Activist investor Cevian Capital said it is betting on Ericsson to improve profits by increasing efficiency and simplifying how it operates, rather than counting on any 5G boost later this decade.

"When 5G comes it could lift growth and profitability further," said Christer Gardell, managing partner at Cevian Capital which owned 8.5 percent of Ericsson outstanding shares as of February.

(Reporting by Olof Swahnberg in Stockholm and Eric Auchard in London; Editing by Keith Weir)Before news broke that it had improperly obtained millions of Facebook users' data and undercover videos showed executives listing entrapment among the nefarious ways it could halt political opponents, Cambridge Analytica was reportedly working on a digital currency. And, interestingly, the cryptocurrency was apparently going to be marketed as a way to fund a system through which users could store and sell their online data. Sources told Reuters that the data firm had consulted a company on how to structure an initial coin offering (ICO).

A Cambridge Analytica spokesperson didn't discuss the ICO but did tell Reuters, "Prior to the Facebook controversy, we were developing a suite of technologies to help individuals reclaim their personal data from corporate entities and to have full transparency and control over how their personal data are used. We were exploring multiple options for people to manage and monetise their personal data, including blockchain technology." And while that seems laughable in light of all of the recent discoveries about the firm and its actions, former Cambridge Analytica employee Brittany Kaiser told the New York Times, "Who knows more about the usage of personal data than Cambridge Analytica? So why not build a platform that reconstructs the way that works?"

Cambridge Analytica was also reportedly involved in the creation of a digital token called the Dragon Coin, which was designed to help gamblers get their money into Macau casinos and has been linked to an infamous Macau gangster.

Cryptocurrencies and ICOs have come under intense scrutiny in the US. The SEC formed a Cyber Unit last year and has brought fraud charges against a number of individuals and companies, as has the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The SEC also issued a warning that it was "looking closely" at companies that suddenly shift their interests to blockchain or digital currencies and it sent subpoenas and requests for information to a number of firms last month. The agency also warned celebrities about endorsing ICOs. In February, a study noted that nearly half of the ICOs launched in 2017 had already failed.[caption id="attachment_7070" align="alignleft" width="620"] Jeffrey Wernick, investor involved with Bitcoin (from left); Brittany Kaiser, former Cambridge Analytica business development director; and Krzysztof Gagacki, founder of IOVO. (Photo: Ian Lopez/ALM)The Facebook Cambridge Analytica scandal is redefining how people view and interact with social media, but it’s also spotlighting the legal framework around data privacy in the U.S. and how consumers can change it.[/caption] Speaking at an April 18 press conference in New York, former Cambridge Analytica business development director Brittany Kaiser joined a panel in proposing that internet users declare their data personal property, and utilize blockchain—the technology underlying Bitcoin—as a means for collectively pursuing a legal framework. And the pursuit, in her view, could prove lucrative. Companies like Google parent Alphabet and Facebook are among “the world’s most powerful” said Kaiser, who has been coined by news outlets a “whistleblower” in Cambridge Analytica’s data practices. “All their value assets are based off the personal data of individuals. The value of the platform is that it continues to collect data on all of us on a day-to-day basis.” Kaiser, who holds an LLM and specializes in international law, noted that many look to European Union data laws—which require EU citizens to “opt in” to have data collected, as opposed to the U.S.’ “opt out” model—as a template for change. “But those European laws don’t go far enough,” she said. “It still doesn’t give you transparency on all the types of data being collected on you.” Part of the reason is that data collected by groups like Facebook, as in the case with Cambridge Analytica, are shared with third parties, which then can use the information for their own purposes. And while U.S. users can opt out of sharing, the ability isn’t always made obvious. “Not many people know that there’s an option to opt out,” Kaiser said. “You have to look for yourself, and it’s not easy.” What’s more, while a user can opt to have their data deleted, Kaiser noted that such a process is difficult if one has been using a social media platform for 10-plus years. “You have to have quite a bit of money and very good lawyers to win some of those cases to remove your data after it’s been collected and been made available to others.” Fellow panelist Krzysztof Gagacki, founder of data management company IOVO, agreed. “Right now, we have the technology that can support the entire change of the data economic priority that is ongoing,” he explained. Gagacki posited that legal issues surrounding data stem from the inception of the internet. “[S]ince it was created in a spontaneous way, there were no regulations dedicated to data ownership. That’s why all the companies making their presence on the internet, they all basically make their revenues out of monetizing our data.” “If we don’t stop it now, then the future generation, they will have no rights, no knowledge about their digital property, which is crucial,” Gagacki added. However, data literacy isn’t the average person’s strong suit. As Kaiser, who was recently named an advisory board member at IOVO, explained, “There’s a very low amount of data literacy among individuals. Most people don’t understand what it means when they click yes on terms and conditions.” And such clicking has been going on for over a decade. Kaiser noted that she was working with data collection as far back as the 2007 presidential campaign for Barack Obama. Further, she said that the U.S. is far from the only country that collects data for political operations, set apart only in that there’s “a plethora of data that is legal for you to purchase or license.” “For many years, I never questioned it. This is the way the political system works, the advertising industry, every single industry in the business of digital communication, that’s the way it works.” In Kaiser’s view, however, free access to platforms like Facebook in exchange for consumer data isn’t “a good transfer of value.” She cited incentivizing people with payments to provide their data for specific uses as an alternative, with platforms like Facebook serving as the marketplace. Panelist Jeffrey Wernick, a private investor who has worked with companies like Uber and Bitcoin, thinks that collective bargaining could make strong cases. To draw a formidably-sized group, he explained that digitized smart contracts, built on blockchain, could aggregate “the right to represent” people. “It’s almost like a class action lawsuit. … That way you extract a lot more value from it,” he said. “We just have to figure out how to organize ourselves. The blockchain is the ideal way to do it.” “Given the fact that property rights are not defined [with data], the market cannot find a solution if there is no ownership claim,” he added. “Once we establish the concept that it is our property, organizations will figure out” how to make value propositions, which will “drive us to get the most value out of what we produce.” However, with the present way many internet companies generate revenue, such a change might be difficult to enact. Kaiser said she started a campaign for Facebook to acknowledge personal data as property by April 30. In talking with Facebook leaders about the idea, however, she said some were more open-minded than others about the idea. She noted she was “taken aback and disappointed” at Facebook chief operating officer Cheryl Sandberg’s statements about people having to provide data if they want Facebook for free. “To me that sounds like a threat. To use your property or pay? I don’t know about that,” she added.Many stocks used Wednesday as a day to consolidate, but some stocks posted big moves. Here are the stock trades for tomorrow catching our eye as we prepare for Thursday’s trading session.

Trades for Tomorrow: Square Stock

Square Inc (NYSE:SQ) is starting to feel its bullish mojo again, bursting higher by about 5% on Wednesday. That makes this call buyer happy, I’m sure, because as of Wednesday they still have a massive position.

Top trades for SQ stock More

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

The pullback in February and in late March coincided with the declines in the broader market. However, its key trend-line of support (in black) held up well. As a result, SQ stock is moving higher and powerfully pushed through $50. There’s no guarantee it won’t fall back down to trend-line support in the upper-$40s, but the pieces are there for a rally to $57.50, its former highs. So bulls can look to buy tomorrow.

Trades for Tomorrow: Micron Stock

$50 was a key level in Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:MU) that many investors were watching. It looked like an obvious bounce trade in early April after a selloff from $62 despite strong earnings. The bounce played out early, sucking in new investors looking for a payout. The market (as if on queue) flushed out a number of traders by plunging MU stock down to $48, running stop-loss orders all along the way.

Top trades for MU stock More

What now? As you can see at the bottom of the chart (in yellow), momentum is starting to turn, favoring the bulls. Micron’s strong rally on Wednesday pushed the stock above $54, a critical move now that shares are above that level of resistance (blue line). The hope for bulls is that Micron stock is flat or higher on Thursday and eventually finds $54 as support rather than resistance.

Trades for Tomorrow: Chipotle Stock

In early Wednesday trading, we had high hopes that Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE:CMG) stock was having one those “this is it” moments.

Top trades for CMG stock More

On the chart above, $345 was momentary support back in August before acting as resistance through 2018. That looked like it was ending Wednesday, before CMG’s 5% gain evaporated to just a 1% gain. If Chipotle stock could have held those gains and cleared $350, there was nothing standing in the way (technically speaking) for a run to $400.

Investors should wait to see if CMG can clear this level. Note: Here’s how to play an earnings breakout in Chipotle.





Trades for Tomorrow: FedEx Stock

After reporting earnings back in March, FedEx Corporation (NYSE:FDX) was breaking out. However, that turned out to be a false breakout, as shown in purple below.

Top trades for FDX stock More

Along with the rest of the market, FDX stock was promptly hammered lower until it found support $20 per share lower, around $235. It trapped longs (me included) who bought into the breakout of a company with strong fundamentals. Patience (and luck) are paying off though.

Story ContinuesStocks closed broadly lower Thursday, snapping a three-day winning streak.

Losses in technology companies and consumer products makers and health care stocks accounted for much of the decline. Banks bucked the downward trend and rose along with bond yields. Energy stocks also rose.

On Thursday:

The S&P 500 index fell 15.51 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,693.13.

The Dow Jones industrial average slid 83.18 points, or 0.3 percent, to 24,664.89.

The Nasdaq composite lost 57.18 points, or 0.8 percent, to 7,238.06.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gave up 9.74 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,573.82.

For the week:

The S&P 500 is up 36.83 points, or 1.4 percent.

The Dow is up 304.75 points, or 1.3 percent.

The Nasdaq is up 131.41 points, or 1.8 percent.

The Russell 2000 is up 24.31 points, or 1.6 percent.

For the year:

The S&P 500 is up 19.52 points, or 0.7 percent.

The Dow is down 54.33 points, or 0.2 percent.

The Nasdaq is up 334.67 points, or 4.9 percent.

The Russell 2000 is up 38.31 points, or 2.5 percent.A Qualcomm Inc. baseband modem integrated circuit (IC) chip, center, of an Apple Inc. iPhone 6 smartphone is seen in an arranged photograph in Bangkok, Thailand, on Saturday, Feb. 3, 2018. Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook told shareholders on Feb. 13 at the company's annual meeting to expect higher dividends and stressed that succession planning is a priority. Photographer: Brent Lewin/Bloomberg

Qualcomm Inc. will cut 1,500 jobs in California, the majority at the chipmaker’s San Diego headquarters, according to documents filed with the state.

Some 1,231 positions will be eliminated in San Diego with terminations starting about June 19, the company said in a WARN, or Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification, notice. Companies are required to make such a state filing when they reduce their workforce by 50 or more employees within a 30-day period. At the same time, about 269 workers will lose their jobs at the company’s Santa Clara and San Jose locations.

The largest maker of smartphone chips pledged in January that it would slash $1 billion in expenses to improve earnings, part of its efforts to fight off a hostile takeover bid from rival Broadcom Inc. Qualcomm’s management team now must live up to its vow and work to solve other problems that have hampered revenue and profit growth. Annual sales have fallen every year since 2015 and are projected to decline 3 percent in fiscal 2018.

More from Bloomberg.com: Rosenstein Tells Trump He’s Not a Target in Mueller, Cohen Probes

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Qualcomm to Cut 1,500 Jobs in California, State Filings Show on bloomberg.comThe logo of Qualcomm is seen during the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain February 27, 2018. REUTERS/Yves Herman

By Munsif Vengattil

(Reuters) - Qualcomm Inc has begun cutting jobs as part of its promise to investors to cut annual costs by $1 billion (£704.6 million), the chipmaker said on Wednesday.

"Qualcomm is conducting a reduction of our full-time and temporary workforce," a company spokesperson who declined to be identifies said, without disclosing the exact numbers of job cuts.

Though the company first evaluated non-headcount expense reductions, it concluded that a workforce reduction is needed to support long-term growth and success, the spokesperson said.

Qualcomm said it offered affected employees severance packages. It employed about 33,800 full-time, part-time and temporary employees, as of Sept 24.

Bloomberg, which first reported the layoffs, said the size of the job cuts is large enough that Qualcomm will have to file a WARN notice, or Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification, with the state of California.

Qualcomm had in January said it would implement a series of targeted reductions across businesses to save $1 billion in annual costs, as part of its attempt to win over investors support against a hostile bid from rival Broadcom Inc.

The bid, however, was cancelled by the Trump administration on national security grounds.

The chipmaker has been ramping up its operations since then to improve earnings growth.





(Reporting by Munsif Vengattil in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Cynthia Osterman)Today, chip maker Qualcomm began the process of laying off around 1,500 workers in California. The move is a part of the company's promise to its investors that it would cut costs by about $1 billion, according to Bloomberg.

This action comes after a hostile takeover bid from rival Broadcom. Qualcomm pledged that it would cut costs in order to improve earnings, but shareholders were more interested in Broadcom's offer. However, President Trump intervened in the potential merger, blocking it in the interest of national security. Now, Qualcomm must take steps to improve its earnings. Cutting jobs is, unfortunately, one of those steps.

A person with knowledge of the situation told Bloomberg that these layoffs represented the majority of the job cuts Qualcomm would make, though there would be some others in different departments. The company did look at other options before resorting to layoffs. "We first evaluated non-headcount expense reductions, but we concluded that a workforce reduction is needed to support long-term growth and success, which will ultimately benefit all our stakeholders," the company said in a statement to Bloomberg.

BloombergMicron Technology, Inc.(NASDAQ:MU) beat earnings expectations last month and closed at $61.07 on March 21, just off 52-week high of $63.42.

Since then, Micron stock has retreated, and the stock now sits at $48.46 per share. Micron stock has more than doubled since December 2016.

MU is one of the world’s top producers of memory chips. Micron accounted for 21% of global DRAM sales in the third quarter of 2017, putting it behind Samsung and SK Hynix. The three held a combined market share of over 95%.Micron also has a strong position in flash memory, commanding 11.5% of that market in the fourth quarter.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Micron was recently downgraded by UBS analyst Timothy Arcuri, who cited cyclical concerns with the stock. However, most of Wall Street remains bullish on Micron stock.

Micron stock has done well since I last wrote about it. But is Micron stock still a buy?

Micron Stock Pros

Limited Trade War Risk: Last week, Eurasia Group president Ian Bremmer tweeted the names of U.S. companies which depend on China.

US companies with the highest share of sales in China

1 Skyworks 82.7%

2 Qualcomm 65.4%

3 Qorvo 62%

4 Broadcom 53.7%

5 Micron Technology 51.1%









FactSet

— ian bremmer (@ianbremmer) April 3, 2018





Given the talk of a trade war between the United States and China, this looks concerning.

However, I don’t see China as a big threat to Micron-at least right now.

China is working to develop a domestic semiconductor industry, but right now it still depends heavily on imported memory chips.

And as I mentioned earlier, around 95% of global DRAM chip sales come from Micron and two other companies, both of which are South Korean.

Could China threaten to buy more from Micron’s South Korean competitors? Maybe. However, China is also angry with South Korea.

Micron could also benefit if China decides to tone down tensions with the United States. Last month, Trump asked China to buy more chips from American manufacturers such as Micron, and the Chinese government offered to do so.

High DRAM Prices: MU has enjoyed a very favorable market environment over the past few years. Memory chip prices rose 26 to 31 percent in 2016.

According to DRAMeXchange, which tracks the prices of memory chips, DRAM prices rose 76% in 2017.

The result is high profit margins for memory chip producers. According to Finviz, Micron’s net margin stands at 38.7%.

Stock Has Fallen: Concerns with Micron stock may already be priced in, since the stock has lost ground over the past month and remains 24% off its 52-week highs.

Micron Stock Cons

Capacity Buildup: Chip prices may be high right now, but eventually supply will catch up with demand.

Last year, memory chip producers ramped up capital spending. Samsung doubled its capex from $11.3 billion to $26 billion. IC Insights president Bill McClean commented:

“In my 37 years of tracking the semiconductor industry, I have never seen such an aggressive ramp of semiconductor capital expenditures. The sheer magnitude of Samsung’s spending this year is unprecedented in the history of the semiconductor industry!”

According to SEMI, global spending on semiconductor equipment rose 37% to $56.6 billion in 2017.

This means more capacity and lower prices are on the horizon.

Cyclical Stock: As I mentioned in 2016, Micron is a cyclical stock. It depends on memory chip prices, which can fluctuate wildly. Buying a cyclical stock like Micron at the wrong time can hurt your portfolio.

Look at how Micron stock fared in 2015, when DRAM prices fell:

Micron’s stock price slid, falling from the mid-30s in December 2014 to less than $10 a share in the spring of 2016.

According to McKinsey on Semiconductors, chipmakers like Micron tend to run their plants at full capacity, even when prices fall, since their fixed costs are very high. The machinery will age even if it isn’t being used as much.FILE PHOTO: Takeda Pharmaceutical's signboard is seen on its headquarters building in Tokyo, Japan January 30, 2018. REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon/File Photo

By Greg Roumeliotis, Ben Martin and Ben Hirschler

NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Rare disease drug maker Shire Plc <SHP.L> said on Thursday it had rejected a $63 billion cash-and-stock acquisition offer by Japan's Takeda Pharmaceutical Co Ltd <4502.T>, while Allergan Plc <AGN.N> reversed course on pursuing a rival bid.

The high-stakes drama underscores the surge in dealmaking this year in the pharmaceutical sector, as large players look for promising assets to improve their pipelines. An acquisition of Shire by Takeda would be by far the biggest acquisition of a drug company year-to-date.

Botox-maker Allergan confirmed on Thursday it was considering an offer for Shire after Reuters reported on its interest, sending its shares down 7 percent.

Later on Thursday, Allergan Chief Executive Brent Saunders decided to drop his pursuit of London-listed Shire after receiving pushback from some of his shareholders, who were concerned about the company overstretching its resources, according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not be identified discussing confidential talks. Allergan then issued a second announcement stating it did not intend to make an offer for Shire.

Dublin-based Allergan, which has a market capitalization of $52 billion, had $30 billion in debt as of the end of December, the legacy of a string of acquisitions. This has weighed on Allergan's ability to carry out big acquisitions.

Allergan's exploration of a bid for Shire was part of its wider strategic review, Allergan said in a statement. This review is currently unlikely to lead either to a major acquisition or a breakup of the company, one of the sources said.

Reuters also first reported on Thursday that Takeda had made a cash-and-stock offer of 46.50 pounds ($66.20) a share for Shire. This prompted both companies to confirm the move and announce that Shire had rejected it, although their negotiations are continuing.

Buying Shire would be the largest ever overseas acquisition by a Japanese company and propel Takeda, led by Frenchman Christophe Weber, into the top ranks of global drugmakers.

It would be Weber's boldest move by far, significantly boosting Takeda's position in rare diseases, including a blockbuster hemophilia franchise, gastrointestinal disorders and neuroscience, where Shire is a leader in drugs to treat hyperactivity.

But it would be a big financial stretch since Shire, with a market value of more than 34 billion pounds ($48.3 billion), is worth a lot more than Japan's biggest drugmaker, which has a market capitalization of 4.1 trillion yen ($31 billion).

An acquisition of Shire would have given Allergan heft in the rare diseases space at a time when Saunders is seeking to cement its status as a purveyor of innovative drugs. Saunders' plans to sell Allergan to Pfizer for $160 billion were scuppered two years ago after the U.S. Treasury changed the rules on corporate tax inversions.

Saunders "was a huge deal guy and everyone was kind of waiting for the next big deal," said Kevin Kedra, an analyst with Gabelli & Co, which holds shares of both Allergan and Shire.

If there was to be a big share component to a deal it would have to come before a vote of shareholders, he noted. "Shareholders seem to be voting this morning," Kedra said.

Takeda said it would remain disciplined in its approach and intended to maintain its dividend policy and investment-grade credit rating, adding that: "Discussions between the parties regarding a potential offer are ongoing."





MORE CASH WANTED

Shire confirmed it had received three conditional proposals from Takeda, but said they significantly undervalued the company's growth prospects and drugs in development.

Takeda's latest 46.50 pounds offer was made on April 12 and comprised 17.75 pounds in cash, which would be paid in U.S. dollars, and 28.75 pounds worth of new Takeda shares. Shire said that valued it at approximately 44 billion pounds ($62.6 billion), based on total issued and to be issued share capital.

The two earlier cash-and-share offers were worth 44 and 45.50 pounds per share, respectively.

Under UK takeover rules, Takeda has until April 25 to make a firm offer or walk away, after it said last month it was considering a bid.

Based on Takeda's market capitalization, Shire shareholders would end up owning approximately 51 percent of the enlarged group, Shire noted.

Story ContinuesIn what would make for a blockbuster acquisition, Japanese pharmaceutical giant Takeda is continuing its hunt for rare disease drug maker Shire. But Shire isn’t making things easy: The firm has already rebuffed Takeda’s advances on three separate occasions, including a recent cash-and-stock offer that would value the deal at $62.5 billion. And Reuters reports that another huge industry player, Botox maker Allergan, may try to scoop up Shire from under Takeda’s nose (see our update below). Shire stock shpg was up 4% in early Thursday trading while Allergan agn shares fell 5%.

Takeda confirmed the M&A rumors amid mounting speculation, stating Thursday that the company was “notified that the Board of Shire had rejected” its most recent buyout proposal. “Discussions between the parties regarding a potential offer are ongoing,” the company said. Allergan released a statement shortly thereafter confirming that “it is in the early stages of considering a possible offer for Shire” but has not yet made an official offer. (UPDATE: Allergan put out a second statement Thursday indicating that it may not be interested in buying Shire after all: “In order to comply with the requirements of the UK Takeover Code, Allergan announced that it does not intend to make an offer for Shire.”)

Subscribe to Brainstorm Health Daily, our newsletter about the most exciting health innovations.

Snatching up Shire, whose portfolio includes the best-selling ADHD drug Vyvanse, would be a transformative deal for either Takeda or Allergan. Takeda, Japan’s largest drug maker, has been on the hunt to expand its global footprint, particularly through acquisitions and partnerships. Allergan CEO Brent Saunders is notorious as a serial acquirer and bolt-on biotech M&A evangelist. But a deal to buy Shire would be a far bigger move for the company, which itself was slated to be bought by Pfizer in a mega-deal that was ultimately scuttled in 2016.

Shire raked in $15.2 billion in 2017 revenues. An acquisition of the company would be the biggest pharmaceutical deal of the year, which might hearten investors who lamented the laggard pace of M&A in the industry last year.

This post has been updated to reflect Allergan’s new statement indicating it may not pursue Shire after all.Allergan Plc investors have been waiting for the drugmaker to make a bold move after the shares took a beating over the past year, but a potential bid for Shire Plc may not be the deal they wanted.

Chief Executive Officer Brent Saunders said on a call with investors in March that Allergan was “going to consider every option” to create value. But given the recent history of failed mega-mergers -- including Allergan and Pfizer Inc. in 2016 -- Cowen & Co. analyst Ken Cacciatore said a potential tie-up with Shire “evokes painful memories.”

Shares of Allergan fell as much as 8.5 percent, their biggest drop since that Pfizer blowup two years ago, as an offer for Shire would potentially set up a bidding war with Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. The stock pared losses after CNBC reported that a bid wasn’t coming, according to people familiar.

More from Bloomberg.com: Russian Missiles Alarm Israel, Stoking Risk of Next Syria Crisis

While buying Shire makes sense strategically, splitting up Allergan’s business or even just taking a wait-and-see approach are options that would give management more control of the process, Cacciatore wrote in a note to clients. Even so, William Blair’s Tim Lugo cautions that “Shire’s availability may be too attractive for management at Allergan to pass up.”

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Allergan Weighing Shire Bid Has Investors Worried About Deja Vu on bloomberg.comAnd now here's Myles Udland with a look ahead at what will be making headlines on Friday.The chief executives of AT&T (T) and Time Warner (TWX) appeared in federal court this week to make their case for the proposed $85 billion mega-merger they agreed on back in 2016, which the US Justice Department has sought to block.

Randall Stephenson of AT&T and Jeff Bewkes of Time Warner are aiming to convince Judge Richard Leon that AT&T owning Time Warner would not create an unfair advantage or hurt consumers.

Bewkes went first. In remarks on Wednesday reported by Reuters, the New York Times and others, Bewkes tried to frame Time Warner as an underdog, facing off against Silicon Valley goliaths like Facebook and Google for ad dollars. He pointed to two “tectonic changes” that have taken place in the industry: “The first one is, there’s television program being offered directly to consumers. The second is that sometimes those same companies, sometimes some other new entrants, you can now have digital advertising. And that’s different than the old television advertising, and it competes with us… It is a double whammy that is a significant one.”

The sale to AT&T, Bewkes reasoned, is necessary because, “We don’t have the tech platform, don’t have the engineers, don’t have the infrastructure” alone.

Bewkes also blasted as “ridiculous” the DOJ’s apparent concern that if AT&T owned Time Warner it would resist licensing out Time Warner television content to competitors, which would leave some consumers without access to the content. “If our channels are not in distribution we lose lots of money,” he said, according to Reuters. He gave a similar argument about the fear that AT&T would try to keep competitors from promoting HBO: “We need to have as many subscribers as we can get,” he said, Variety reported.

AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson (L) and Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes at a 2016 conference (AFP Photo/Glenn Chapman) More

Stephenson got his turn on Thursday. He focused on the argument that the merger will be beneficial to consumers: by owning Time Warner, AT&T will make more in advertising, allowing it to lower prices in turn on products like DirecTV. He called the merger a “vision deal.”

And Stephenson, like Bewkes, addressed the fears that AT&T would use its Time Warner assets to block rival cable providers from offering the same content. “That strategy is not a good approach to creating value,” he said, according to the Washington Post.

Finally, Stephenson appeared to make a big reveal in his testimony. He shared that AT&T plans to launch a new skinny bundle, AT&T Watch, that sounds skinnier than its existing offering, DirecTV Now. It will also be cheaper than DirecTV Now.

The trial over the merger should wrap up before May.

—

Daniel Roberts covers tech and media at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter at @readDanwrite.

Read more:

AT&T-Time Warner deal has massive implications for sports TV

What Disney will do with Fox’s regional sports networks

How MLB’s tech arm got so big that Disney had to buy it

How Amazon Prime’s 100 million subscribers stack up to Netflix, Spotify

Amazon Prime, YouTube TV are in a sports streaming race

Amazon’s NFL streaming is an ad-data playBill Mead of Houston is glad the tax cuts signed by President Trump last year lowered the corporate tax rate, aligning it more with rates in other nations. But the naval architect, 71, still feels the cuts were far too generous to the wealthy. “I don’t know why they need it,” he says. “They’re just going to use it to overpay for something they could have anyway. They all need to sit down at the club and think about this. They could make the country better by paying a little more.”

Overall, Mead—a Republican—disapproves of the new tax law.

So do a lot of other Americans. In the latest Gallup poll, 48% of respondents said they disapprove of the tax cuts, while just 39% approve–which seems surprising, given that the cuts have boosted take-home pay for roughly two-thirds of workers. Republicans in Washington are so dismayed by the tax law’s unpopularity that they’re considering another round of tax cuts, although passage seems unlikely.

Reuters More

Yahoo Finance conducted its own flash poll on April 18 to figure out why, exactly, Americans don’t like the tax cuts. We found three basic reasons: People think the tax cuts favor the wealthy over the middle and working class. They’re suspicious that tax cuts for businesses are permanent but tax cuts for individuals are temporary. And they think it’s irresponsible to finance the tax cuts with debt that future workers will have to shoulder.

“It bothers me, because I have children and grandchildren and I wonder how this is going to affect them,” a database architect who lives in the Pacific Northwest told Yahoo Finance. His income is in the top 3%, he says, and his after-tax pay rose by about 5% this year due to the tax cuts. His daughter earns far less than he does, however, and she has seen little gain. “I got a huge benefit,” he says, “but my daughter, who makes about one-eighth what I make, saw a negligible increase in pay. We should have had a tax cut targeted at the class that’s really hurting.” The data architect is an Independent.

Our audience at Yahoo Finance is more enthused about the Trump tax cuts than the broader population, probably because they tend to be investors benefiting from provisions that favor shareholders and business owners. Of more than 2,000 respondents in our survey, 57% approve of the tax cuts. Our audience also favors President Trump by about 5 percentage points more than the broader population. (Full survey results are at the end of this story.)

Who benefits most from the tax cuts?

Yet even among a group favorably disposed toward tax cuts, two glaring objections to the GOP tax law appear in our survey results. First, a plurality—42%–think the tax cuts favor the wealthy most of all. Only 29.6% say they favor the working and middle class.

Source: Yahoo Finance poll conducted online via SurveyMonkey on April 18. More

Respondents are also concerned about the $1.8 trillion in new debt the US government will have to issue over the next decade, to make up for federal revenue lost to the tax cuts. “This was adding fuel to a fire already burning fine,” says Mike, a Wisconsin investment adviser. “We should be running, at worst, a break-even budget right now and stacking some dry powder. It was just a classic case of borrowing from the future at the stupidest possible time.” Mike is a Republican.

In our survey, 44.5% of respondents said short-term benefits from the tax cuts is not worth the additional debt. Only 39.4% feel the benefits are worth the additional debt.

Source: Yahoo Finance poll conducted online via SurveyMonkey on April 18. MoreBy Sinéad Carew

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Wall Street's three major indexes closed lower on Thursday, with tobacco stocks leading a tumble in consumer staples while concerns about smartphone demand hurt the technology sector and rising bond yields and earnings helped financials rebound.

The market pared some losses late in the session after Bloomberg reported that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein told President Donald Trump last week he is not a target of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation. The report cited two unnamed people familiar with the matter.

Cigarette giant Philip Morris International Inc (PM.N) was the second biggest weight on the S&P after weaker-than-expected results, also pulling down U.S. tobacco company Altria (MO.N).

A warning from Taiwan Semiconductor (TSMC) <2330.TW>, the world's largest contract chipmaker and an Apple Inc (AAPL.O) supplier, on soft demand for smartphones and on the industry's growth this year sparked a tumble in chip stocks and made Apple the S&P's second biggest weight.

Along with weak results from Philip Morris and Procter & Gamble Co (PG.N), defensive sectors such as consumer staples (.SPLRCS) were also hurt by a rise in U.S. 10-year Treasury yields, which helped bank stocks.

"It's pretty much dictated by the move in the bond market," said Stephen Massocca, senior vice president at Wedbush Securities in San Francisco.





When yields are high, investors favor bonds over defensive sectors such as consumer staples and real estate, which promise high dividends and slow, predictable growth. But banks benefit because high interest rates can boost their profits.

"The sectors really tell the story. Financials are up because they do better in a higher rate environment," said Richard Sichel, senior investment strategist at The Philadelphia Trust Company.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average (.DJI) fell 83.18 points, or 0.34 percent, to 24,664.89, the S&P 500 (.SPX) lost 15.51 points, or 0.57 percent, to 2,693.13 and the Nasdaq Composite (.IXIC) dropped 57.18 points, or 0.78 percent, to 7,238.06.

The S&P consumer staples sector was the benchmark's biggest drag, closing down 3.2 percent, led by Philip Morris' 15.6 percent slide. Altria, the parent of Philip Morris USA, fell 6 percent.

Procter & Gamble shares were down 3.3 percent after it said shrinking retailer inventories and higher commodities and transportation costs had squeezed its margins.

Apple shares fell 2.8 percent, making it the biggest drag on the S&P 500 on the day, as a raft of analysts said TSMC's prediction of softer smartphone sales was driven chiefly by concern about demand for the company's iPhones.

TSMC's U.S.-listed shares (TSM.N) closed down 5.7 percent, while the Philadelphia SE semiconductor index (.SOX) tumbled 4.3 percent.

A 1.5 percent rise in the S&P's financial sector (.SPSY), was supported by a 7.6 percent jump in American Express Co (AXP.N) shares due to strong earnings as well as climbing yields.

But rising bond yields hurt homebuilders and the PHLX housing index (.HGX) fell 2.7 percent.

Of the 52 companies among the S&P 500 that have reported first-quarter earnings through Wednesday, 78.8 percent topped profit expectations, according to Thomson Reuters data.

Declining issues outnumbered advancing ones on the NYSE by a 2.22-to-1 ratio; on Nasdaq, a 1.71-to-1 ratio favored decliners.

The S&P 500 posted 22 new 52-week highs and 16 new lows; the Nasdaq Composite recorded 87 new highs and 52 new lows.

On U.S. exchanges 6.52 billion shares changed hands, compared with the 6.98 billion-share average for the last 20 sessions.





(Additional reporting by April Joyner and Caroline Valetkevitch in New York, Sruthi Shankar in Bengaluru; Editing by Nick Zieminski and Jonathan Oatis)Walmart Inc (NYSE:WMT) announced that the company is changing the employee dress code to a more lenient one in an effort to create a more relaxed work atmosphere.

Walmart Dress Code More

Source: Flickr>

The company announced that it is allowing blue jeans to be worn by workers at its stores for the first time ever. Walmart is testing new dress codes in a small number of U.S. stores with the hopes that this more relaxed environment will help to reel in and retain staff in an increasingly tighter labor market.

This means that workers will be allowed to wear shirts of any solid color, which marks a shift from its previous option of only having blue or white shirts, according to an employee manual obtained by Bloomberg News. As far as jeans go, only solid blue ones will be allowed, which is also a change from previously only allowing khaki-colored pants or black denim pants.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Walmart adds that visible facial tattoos will be forbidden for those hired after April 14, according to the manual. This is one of many moves the retailer is making in order to keep cashiers and shelf stockers satisfied as the company announced in February that it was boosting the starting hourly wage, while also adding bonuses to employees.

The company also expanded its parental-leave policy and included an adoption benefit.

WMT stock fell a fraction of a percentage Thursday.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Walmart Dress Code to Get a Lot More Flexible appeared first on InvestorPlace.Should We Call It a Comeback? Former Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer Is Launching a Tech Incubator

Former Yahoo Chief Executive Officer Marissa Mayer is starting a technology business incubator, Lumi Labs, with longtime colleague Enrique Muñoz Torres.

The venture will focus on consumer media and artificial intelligence, according to the company’s website, which is set against a backdrop of snow-covered peaks. Lumi means snow in Finnish, Mayer told the New York Times, which reported the news earlier Wednesday.

The next project for Mayer, who was an early employee at Google googl and worked there until leaving to run Yahoo in 2012, had been a matter of considerable speculation in Silicon Valley. She left Yahoo, once a leading search engine and web destination, after it was sold to Verizon Communications vz last year.

Lumi is based in Palo Alto, California, in the office where Mayer began her career at Google, she told the Times.'One of my key learnings from Yahoo is timing is everything', Marissa Mayer More

Marissa Mayer was celebrated as a savior when she left Google to become chief executive of Yahoo in 2012. A brilliant computer scientist, Mayer was the 20th employee at Google, and influenced many of the company’s signature features — including Gmail and Google Maps. But could she save Yahoo? The company was reeling from boardroom tumult and a series of executive changeovers when she arrived, and Google and Facebook were winning the war for online eyeballs and ad dollars. Her tenure was ferociously controversial. Investors did well during Mayer’s five years at the helm, seeing the value of their shares more than triple. But Mayer’s every decision was second-guessed by Silicon Valley, and sheMarissa Mayer is starting the next phase of her career exactly where she began nearly 20 years ago.

The embattled former CEO of Yahoo, who began her career at Google in 1999 after graduating Stanford University with bachelor’s and master’s degrees in computer science, is now renting Google’s old office in Palo Alto, California, Mayer told The New York Times (paywall):









This is also where PayPal started, so there’s a lot of good juju here. Coming back here, it reminds me of what Google felt like in those early moments. I remember running up those steps, because if you didn’t get here fast enough on Saturday morning, someone in the world was going to get worse search results, and it might change their life for the worse.

America’s richest people live in one specific kind of neighborhood



Mayer left Google for Yahoo in 2012, after 13 years at Google in which she oversaw various products including its most profitable business, Search. She was heralded after her departure as a “geek goddess” and savvy leader who would return Yahoo to its former glory. “In 1999, Yahoo was the internet,” Mayer reminded the Times. But, ultimately, she wasn’t able to return it to relevance, though investors did see a higher return during her helm. Her tenure there was also marred by a massive data breach. She sold the business to Verizon and stepped down from her post last year.

As for her next bet, Mayer is playing it close to the vest. She told the Times she has a “little lab” called Lumi Labs in the old Google space where her team is dabbling with consumer-facing ideas. “So I’ve been meeting with different founders and just seeing what’s happening in the industry.”

Sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief, our free daily newsletter with the world’s most important and interesting news.

More stories from Quartz:



The Bitcoin bulls didn’t get the memo on Wednesday, with Bitcoin only managing a 3.56% rise on day, partially reversing Monday and Tuesday’s losses, to end the day at $8,169.5.

A morning rally saw Bitcoin break out from the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57 to hit a morning $8,168.8 high, breaking through the first major support level of $8,098.87 before seeing a pullback to an early afternoon $7,907.4 to call on buyer support at the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57. A late afternoon rally saw Bitcoin hit an intraday high $8,237.2, testing the day’s 1st major resistance level for a 2nd time and this time managing to hold on through to the day’s end.

Bitcoin’s $7,870.5 intraday low hit in the early morning, managed to hold above the first major support level of $7,736.87, though the day’s gains paled in comparison to its peers, with Bitcoin Cash steeling the Bitcoin limelight on the day, surging 18.3%.

Wednesday’s moves provided some evidence that the U.S tax season may have had some influence on the cryptomarkets, though investors have also been relatively free from negative news from governments and regulators on planned roll out of new regs in the summer, which would have been another positive in recent weeks.

For the Bitcoin bulls, Wednesday’s moves suggest that Bitcoin Cash may be finding more favour in the market, the Bitcoin Cash fork providing much needed improvements that gives Bitcoin Cash a fighting chance in the real world. Bitcoin’s transaction speeds and fees an unrealistic alternative to the fiat currency world.

It may be too early to call a changing of the guard, but Wednesday certainly signals a shift and, while Bitcoin will likely continue to be the broader market’s barometer near-term, Bitcoin’s influence could begin to wane, Bitcoin’s dominance having eased to 40.1% from 45% levels back in late March. While dominance levels have tended to reflect cryptomarket conditions in the past, how Bitcoin’s dominance levels move in the coming weeks will be particularly interesting.

For now, Bitcoin’s miners have stayed put, with Bitcoin’s hash rate rising to 30.5385E, well above Bitcoin Cash’s 2.8637E, a cross-over having only taken place on 2 occasions back in 2017, the first on 23rd August and the second on 12th November, from which point the pair have seen a continued divergence in favour of Bitcoin.

Get Into Cryptocurrency Trading Today

BTC/USD 19/04/18 Hourly Chart More

At the time of writing, Bitcoin was up just 0.22% to $8,188.9, with the Bitcoin bulls looking to make up some ground on Bitcoin Cash through the morning.

It’s been a choppy start to the day, with Bitcoin falling to a morning low $8,032.2 in the first hour, before a bounce to an 8,284.9 morning high, the moves leaving the day’s major support and resistance levels untested early on.

Following Wednesday’s price action and Bitcoin’s failure to catch up with its peers through the day, investors may begin to turn fickle and look elsewhere for more sizeable rallies that could continue to pin back any more substantial gains in Bitcoin, though for now Bitcoin will likely catch up, investors yet to fully differentiate the cryptocurrencies by product offering and performance.

For the day ahead, a move through to $8,250 levels would support the start of a rally, any failure to move through to $8,250 levels and a run at the day’s first major resistance level of $8,314.3 likely to lead to a pullback later in the day, bringing sub-$8,000 support levels into play.

Bitcoin’s near-term bullish trend, formed at 6th April’s swing lo $6,500.2 remains intact, but a move back through to Sunday’s swing hi 8,458.8 is going to be needed to continue drawing investors back in.

Buy & Sell Cryptocurrency Instantly

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE:Key Highlights

Cardano’s ADA slid 6.21% on Tuesday, partially reversing Monday’s 13.27% gain, to end the day at $0.2415.

An intraday high $0.285 broke through the day’s first major resistance level of $0.2736 to test the 2 nd support level of $0.2901.

support level of $0.2901. An end of the day $0.24155 low held above the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2309 and first major support level of $0.2260, leaving support levels untested through the day.

How to Buy Cardano (ADA) The Complete Guide

Cardano’s ADA Price Resistance

The morning’s intraday high broke through the day’s first major resistance level of $0.2736 before facing strong resistance at the 2nd resistance level of $0.2901, with a 2nd day of negative sentiment across the broader market ultimately pinning Cardano’s ADA back from a second day of solid gains.

While Cardano’s ADA managed to hold above key support levels through the middle of the day, the late in the day sell-off seen across the broader cryptomarket weighed, with Cardano’s ADA falling in the final hours of the day to an intraday low $0.24155.

For the market bulls, the good news that supports levels were not tested, with buyer appetite at the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2309 likely to have been on the weaker side, when considering sentiment across the broader market, which could have seen Cardano’s ADA take a big hit on the day.

Monday’s 13.27% trend-bucking rally came off the back of news that Cardano’s ADA trade pairings on Binance would be expanded to include BNB and USDT, the crypto exchanges continuing to have ultimate influence on the direction of the coins, as Ripple’s XRP investors discovered on a number of occasions.

Being added to an exchange tends to have far longer lasting effects than having additional two additional trade pairings included on an exchange.

At the time of writing, Cardano’s ADA was up 3.91% to $0.251, with the broad-based market rally of last week resuming after a number of soft days.

An intraday high $0.25329 struck in the last hour came up short of the day’s first major resistance level of $0.2638 in what had been a relatively choppy start to the day, a morning $0.24141 low coming at the start of the day being followed up with a number of pullbacks to test buyer appetite at the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2431 through the morning.

For the day ahead, a move through the morning’s high $0.25329 to the first major resistance level of $0.2638 would support another run at Tuesday’s $0.275 high, though market sentiment will need to continue to be upbeat through the 2nd half of the day, else a reversal at the first major resistance level will be likely, which could see Cardano’s ADA pullback to the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $0.2431.

Bitcoin will be the barometer for market sentiment later in the day, any pullback in Bitcoin likely to be felt by Cardano’s ADA, though for now, the bullish trend formed at the 6th April $0.14 remains firmly intact, the news wires having provided little for investors to get nervous about.

Cardano 1H Chart More

Looking at the Technical Indicators

Major Support Level: $0.2304

Major Resistance Level: $0.2638

Fib 23.6% Retracement Level: $0.2431

Fib 38% Retracement Level: $0.2234

Fib 62% Retracement Level: $0.1916

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE:Bitcoin slipped a further 2.25% on Tuesday, adding to Monday’s 3.43% slide, to end the day at $7,874.8, fully reversing Sunday’s 4.41% rally.

While Bitcoin managed to hit $8,000 levels through the day, it was the first sub-$8,000 close since Friday, with investors likely to have been disappointed by the lack of a predicted rally on the day of the U.S tax deadline.

Following a relatively subdued start to the day that saw Bitcoin hover around the $8,000 mark, a late morning rally took Bitcoin through to an intraday high $8,185 to break clear of the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57.

The $8,185 high fell well short of the day’s first major resistance level of $8,357.57, leaving Bitcoin with a sideways move through the middle part of the day before pulling back to an intraday low $7,823, falling through the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57, which had provided much needed support in the early part of the day, to test support at the day’s first major support level of $7,842.37.

Bitcoin’s finish at below the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level could signal an end to the near-term bullish trend formed back at 6th March’s swing lo $6,500.2, today’s moves key to Bitcoin’s week and sentiment towards the broader market.

A lack of a bullish rally late in the day to signal the passing of the U.S tax deadline will raise some questions over the cause of the 1st quarter slide, the payment of U.S taxes alone unlikely to have been the reason, though with talks of the Rothschilds and Soros now looking at the cryptomarket, there’s plenty of other fish in the sea to support a Bitcoin rebound.

Some positive chatter from IMF Head Lagarde on blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies in general was well received, supporting Bitcoin through the middle part of the day, though nothing new, with Lagarde unlikely to be of influence when regulators and governments finalize their plans for Crypto oversight.

Get Into Cryptocurrency Trading Today

BTC/USD 18/04/18 Hourly Chart More

At the time of writing, Bitcoin was up just 0.09% to $7,896.2, coming up short of $8,000 levels in the early part of the morning, with an intraday high $7,959.8.

The morning’s $7,870.5 low saw Bitcoin hold off from testing the day’s first major support level of $7,736.87, while calling on buy support as Bitcoin slid through the 23.6% FIB Retracement Level of $7,996.57.

With the sentiment across the broader market upbeat, in spite of Bitcoin’s slow start to the day, we would expect Bitcoin to move back through to $8,000 levels this morning and take a run at the day’s first major resistance level of $8,098.87.

Bitcoin could find increased demand through the latter part of the day should there be an influx in demand from the U.S, with regulator chatter having been on the quieter side of late, allowing the cryptos to recover some of the year’s losses.

Failure to test the first major resistance level could see a pullback to this morning’s lows, with market sentiment to dictate whether buyer appetite can hold Bitcoin above the day’s first major support level of $7,736.87 late in the day.

We will expect Bitcoin to catch up with the broader market, which should be a boost all-round.

Buy & Sell Cryptocurrency Instantly

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE:CNBC's Morgan Brennan talks with Blue Origin CEO Bob Smith about the company's new engine for it's latest suborbital rocket and new opportunities in space exploration.Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos revealed Wednesday that there are more than 100 million global subscribers to Amazon Prime, the company’s membership program.

“In 2017 Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year – both worldwide and in the U.S,” Bezos said in his annual letter to shareholders, which was published Wednesday. Amazon had not previously revealed the number of Prime members.

Bezos said more new Prime members joined on Prime Day 2017 than on any other day in the company’s history. That day also set a sales record for the e-commerce giant.

Prime members pay a monthly fee of $12.99 or an annual fee of $99, and receive access to free two-day shipping, free same-day delivery and Prime Video streaming, among other program benefits. Amazon expanded Prime to Mexico, Singapore, the Netherlands and Luxembourg in 2017, Bezos said.Before a U.S. farm voluntarily recalled 207 million eggs, government inspectors found rodents scurrying in manure pits, equipment that was coated with grime and food debris, and outside a swarm of “large flying insects too numerous to count.”

Unsanitary conditions were found during multiple inspections of a Rose Acre Farms facility in Hyde County, N.C., that allowed for the “proliferation and spread of filth and pathogens throughout the facility that could cause the contamination of egg processing equipment and eggs,” according to a report from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration detailing inspections. A review of the farm’s pest control records flagged an ongoing rodent infestation, with rodents, dead carcasses and baby mice observed, along with workers who weren’t following proper sanitary practices.

The farm voluntarily recalled the eggs earlier last week after more than 20 consumers became ill from a suspected salmonella poisoning. The recall is the largest of eggs in the U.S. since 2010, when more than 550 million were recalled from two Iowa farms, according to the website Food Safety News.

The FDA’s inspection report “is based on raw observations and in some cases lack proper context,” Gene Grabowski, an outside spokesman for Rose Acre Farms, said in an email. The company is preparing a formal response to the report and “until then, we would urge everyone to wait until all the facts are presented before rushing to judgment.”

‘Debris and Grime’

Throughout a March 28 review, federal inspectors “observed condensation dripping from the ceiling, pipes and down walls onto production equipment” and pooling on floors, the FDA said. Employees were found in violation of proper sanitary procedures, and a steel wool scrubber used to clean debris off equipment was stored on a cart in a dustpan that had a pool of water “floating with debris and grime.”

On one visit, inspectors saw “at least 25 flying insects” in the egg processing facility landing on food, food production equipment and contact surfaces, according to the report.

The company voluntarily recalled the eggs after an investigation of illnesses on the East Coast triggered an inspection of the facility. The recall is equivalent to about 90 days of output at the farm, which produces 2.3 million eggs a day.On paper, most analysts will agree that Activision Blizzard, Inc. (NASDAQ:ATVI) is enjoying a solid start to this year. Against the January opener, ATVI stock has gained nearly 9%. Given that the year is still relatively young, this consistently hot performer has enough time to make up some ground. Yet trouble is looming over the horizon for ATVI.

Despite Activision’s immense reputation in delivering the most compelling first-person shooter games, another company has unexpectedly taken its throne.

Epic Games’ runaway hit, Fortnite, is all anyone can talk about these days. Even those who are not necessarily known for their gaming exploits, such as the musician Drake, jumped on the bandwagon. The momentum has ATVI worried.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

At first, Fortnite was a fad, a strong blip on the radar, but a blip nonetheless. But it quickly gained steam and never let go. Last month, CNBC claimed that the upstart shoot-em-up game wiped out $6 billion of market value from ATVI stock.

But it’s not just ATVI feeling the heat. Long-time rivals such as Take-Two Interactive Software, Inc (NASDAQ:TTWO), which has many gritty, violent titles similar to Activision Blizzard, is down 9% year-to-date. And while Electronic Arts Inc. (NASDAQ:EA) has weathered the storm better than its peers, it too is not exempt.

From a nearer-term perspective, ATVI stock appears to be forming a bearish head-and-shoulders pattern. Given Fortnite’s massive success, I don’t think this is a coincidence. If I was a gambling man, I’d bet that ATVI will suffer some volatility before its situation improves.

But believe me — in the long run, it will improve. ATVI stock is a proven commodity. Fortnite is not.

ATVI Stock Is Down, Not Out

If you’re an Activision shareholder, it’s difficult not to be intimated with Fortnite’s success. Unlike other smash hits, this game has been a top performer for several months. In addition, its development team introduced updates to a deeply-appreciative fan base, and expansion to other platforms are underway.

But what makes Fortnite tick? Industry experts claim that the general audience format maximizes popularity. Unlike other first-person shooters which feature realistic violence, Fortnite utilizes colorful, vibrant graphics and over-the-top characters. The fantasy element and the fun gameplay — not the realism — is the focus.

While this hit title certainly has broader appeal than many ATVI games, that’s not what makes it special. Initially, Epic Games released Fortnite as a stand-alone game for consoles and computers. The original version was well-received, but not to the degree currently witnessed.

It was another title under Epic Games, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds, that sparked Fortnite’s success. Introducing a “Battle Royale” mode where players fight to the death until a single person or team remains, Battlegrounds quickly captured gamers’ attention. Sensing a new trend, Epic integrated the Battle Royale mode to Fortnite. The rest is history.

To be sure, it’s an amazing story. However, it’s also a replicable one, which is why I’m not giving up on ATVI stock. Thanks to its wealth of gaming know-how, it won’t take long for Activision to introduce a new twist to this craze.

From what I can tell, this single gaming mode is all it took to transform a good game into a pop-culture phenomenon. Otherwise, from a graphics or general gameplay perspective, you can’t tell the difference between “regular” Fortnite and the popular version.

Again, this bodes well for ATVI stock. The company doesn’t have to reinvent the wheel: It just needs to make a better one.

ATVI Is the Real Deal

I’ll concede that Epic has turned the gaming world upside down. It truly hit it out of the park with its addictive first-person shooter. But in the internet age, all fads eventually fade.

When you consider prior gaming crazes that eventually collapsed, its search interest charts resemble a stock market crash: a massive spike up, followed by rapid decompression. So far, Fortnite is bucking the trend by lasting longer than other fads. However, this industry is notorious for having a short attention span. If Epic doesn’t produce a follow-up, it will instead suffer an epic fail.

In sharp contrast, ATVI is the real deal. Forget months. Activision has been delivering immensely popular first-person shooters since the turn of the century. In such a fickle industry, a proven track record is worth its weight in gold.

As of this writing, Josh Enomoto did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Activision Blizzard, Inc. Will Finish What ‘Fortnite’ Started appeared first on InvestorPlace.FILE PHOTO: A logo of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC) is seen at its headquarters in Hsinchu, Taiwan October 5, 2017. REUTERS/Eason Lam/File Photo

By Sonam Rai

(Reuters) - Shares in Apple Inc and its suppliers fell on Thursday after a raft of analysts read a prediction of softer smartphone sales from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd <2330.TW> as driven chiefly by concern about demand for iPhones.

TSMC, the world's largest contract chipmaker and a major Apple supplier, revised its full-year revenue target to the low end of its earlier forecast.

"Apple represents nearly 20 percent of TSMC's revenue so the outlook potentially points to weaker-than-anticipated iPhone demand," Atlantic Equities analyst James Cordwell told Reuters.

Others, some asking not to be quoted, said baldly that the warning was "exactly" about Apple.

Mizuho Securities USA said in a client note that its checks continue to point to soft demand for iPhone X, the Cupertino-based firm's tenth anniversary phone released last November, in addition to a steady fall in iPhone 8 and 8 Plus orders.

Apple's shares were last down 2.5 percent and were the biggest drag on the tech-heavy Nasdaq index.

Shares of Apple suppliers including Qualcomm Inc , Intel Corp , Qorvo Inc , Skyworks Solutions Inc and Broadcom Inc fell by 2 percent to 5 percent.

"Until the new iPhones in the Fall start driving the production food chain in Q3, mobile's going to be weak," Elazar Advisors analyst Chaim Siegel said.

TSMC, also a supplier to Qualcomm and Nvidia Corp , said it expects growth this year of 5 percent for the global semiconductor industry, weaker than an earlier forecast of 5-7 percent.

Data provider TrendForce had earlier estimated 2018 global smartphone production at around 1.5 billion units, 2.8 percent up on 2017 but down from a previously expected 5 percent.

TSMC on Thursday estimated 8 percent growth for contract chipmakers, compared with its previous forecast of 9-10 percent.

U.S.-listed shares of TSMC were down 6 percent, while other chip equipment makers such as Applied Materials Inc and Lam Research Corp fell about 5 percent and ASML Holding NV lost 3.6 percent.

Another big industry bellwether, chip equipment maker Lam Research, said on Wednesday its shipments missed consensus estimates for the first time in five years.

Chipmakers Analog Devices Inc , Micron Technology and Xilinx Inc were also down by 3 percent to 4 percent.

(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru; Editing by Maju Samuel and Patrick Graham)By Wayne Cole

SYDNEY (Reuters) - Asian shares slipped on Friday as a warning on smartphone demand from the world's largest contract chipmaker slugged the tech sector, while high oil prices stirred inflation fears and undermined sovereign bonds.

Apple <AAPL.O> led the way after Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing <2330.TW> cut its revenue target to the low end of forecasts and blamed softer demand for smartphones.

"The big story for the APAC region today will be fallout from TSMC's miss, which will weigh heavily on the tech sector, with first order impacts on the Semis and Samsung Electronics/ Galaxy supply chain," analysts at JPMorgan said in a note.

"The miss appears largely to have been due to Apple iPhones, and so may also weigh on the Apple supply chain."

Taiwan's main index <.TWII> slid 1.4 percent with techs sinking 3.5 percent and TSMC off more than 5 percent.

Stocks in South Korea <.KS11> took a 0.3 percent dip, with the tech sector losing 1.6 percent.

MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan <.MIAPJ0000PUS> shed 0.8 percent, again led by a 0.7 percent fall in technology.

Japan's Nikkei <.N225> recouped early losses to rise 0.1 percent as gains in energy and financials outweighed the drop in tech.

Wall Street had also been hit by weak results from tobacco company Philip Morris <PM.N>, which sent its shares down as much as 17.7 percent and dragged on the S&P 500.

The Dow <.DJI> ended down 0.34 percent, while the S&P 500 <.SPX> lost 0.57 percent and the Nasdaq <.IXIC> 0.78 percent.





INFLATION FUEL

Oil prices were creeping up again after hitting their highest since late 2014 on drawdowns in global supply and as Saudi Arabia looks to fatten its export revenue.

Brent crude futures <LCOc1> edged up 6 cents to $73.83 a barrel, while U.S. crude <CLc1> added 7 cents to $68.36.

A global oil glut has been virtually eliminated, according to a joint OPEC and non-OPEC technical panel, two sources familiar with the matter said, thanks in part to an OPEC-led supply cut deal in place since January 2017.

Analysts at CBA noted market measures of inflation expectations had spiked higher this week as oil prices surged, with some hitting highs not seen since mid-2014.

That in turn pressured fixed-income debt with yields on 10-year Treasuries <US10YT=RR> jumping to a one-month top at 2.93 percent. Yields are up 10 basis points in just two days, the sharpest move since early February.

In currency markets, the main mover was sterling which dived late on Thursday when Bank of England Governor Mark Carney cooled expectations for an interest rate hike in May, pointing out there were "other meetings" this year.

Sterling dropped more than a cent to $1.4078 <GBP=D4>, leaving the week's peak of $1.4373 a distant memory.

The sudden retreat in sterling helped support the U.S. dollar more broadly and the dollar index <.DXY> was steady at 89.956.

The euro also eased back a touch to $1.2341 <EUR=>, while the dollar inched up on the yen to 107.62 <JPY=> and looked set to test the recent top at 107.78.

On the radar later in the day will be IMF and World Bank meetings in Washington where free trade and protectionism is certain to be high on the agenda along with Sino-U.S. tensions.





(Editing by Shri Navaratnam and Kim Coghill)Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos’s annual shareholder letter, released on Wednesday evening, included an unexpected reveal. He shared how many Amazon Prime members Amazon now has: 100 million.

So, 13 years after launching, Prime has 100 million paying members.

Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos (Getty) More

Your first question might be to wonder how that number compares to other subscription services for streaming content.

To be sure, these are not apples-to-apples comparisons, since Prime is not only for video—in fact, it’s likely that the vast majority of Prime members pay for the service to get the shipping benefits, not for Prime Video. Nonetheless, it’s interesting to examine the numbers.

Graphic by TechCrunch for Oath More

Netflix has 125 million paying subscribers, Netflix just announced in its Q1 2018 earnings this week.

Spotify has 71 million people paying for its premium service, the company said last month before it went public.

Apple Music has 40 million paying subscribers in 115 countries, Apple digital chief Eddy Cue shared in an internal memo this month obtained by Variety.

Hulu, which is jointly owned by Time Warner, 21st Century Fox, Comcast, and Disney, had 17 million paying subscribers in the US across its video-on-demand and new live TV services, the company announced in January.

Amazon shares climbed 1.5% after Bezos’s letter was published.

—

Daniel Roberts covers tech and media at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter at @readDanwrite.

Read more:

ESPN’s new streaming service is aimed at a very specific kind of sports fan

How MLB’s streaming video arm got so big that Disney had to buy it

Amazon Prime, YouTube TV are in a sports streaming race

What Disney will do with Fox’s regional sports networks

Amazon’s NFL streaming is all about collecting ad dataAmazon Prime now has more than 100 million members, CEO Jeff Bezos said April 18 in his annual letter to shareholders. For context, that’s greater than the population of Germany, Vietnam, or Egypt.

From the shareholder letter:









13 years post-launch, we have exceeded 100 million paid Prime members globally. In 2017 Amazon shipped more than five billion items with Prime worldwide, and more new members joined Prime than in any previous year – both worldwide and in the U.S. Members in the U.S. now receive unlimited free two-day shipping on over 100 million different items. We expanded Prime to Mexico, Singapore, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg, and introduced Business Prime Shipping in the U.S. and Germany. We keep making Prime shipping faster as well, with Prime Free Same-Day and Prime Free One-Day delivery now in more than 8,000 cities and towns. Prime Now is available in more than 50 cities worldwide across nine countries. Prime Day 2017 was our biggest global shopping event ever (until surpassed by Cyber Monday), with more new Prime members joining Prime than any other day in our history.

It was the first time Amazon revealed subscriber numbers behind the $99-a-year program, which is a pillar of Amazon’s success. Prime members spend more on Amazon: $1,300 a year vs. $1,000 for non-Prime members, according to data from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners. They are also intensely loyal, with renewal rates that exceed 90% (some of that may be thanks to Amazon’s auto-renewal policy). With 100 million paid subscribers, Amazon is making in the range of $9.9 billion a year from Prime membership fees alone, though prices vary around the globe.

As it continues to grow Prime, Amazon’s challenge, particularly in established markets like the US, is to make the program appeal to less wealthy households. Analysts believe the company may struggle to attract users who earn less than $75,000 a year. Amazon has already started to tackle this problem, both with a monthly Prime membership ($12.99) and a discounted Prime program for low-income Americans ($5.99 a month). Amazon is also aggressively pursuing new users outside the US, and last year expanded the service to Mexico, Singapore, the Netherlands, and Luxembourg.

Sign up for the Quartz Daily Brief, our free daily newsletter with the world’s most important and interesting news.

More stories from Quartz:



Waste gas burns from a torch column at PKN Orlen SA's oil refinery in Plock, Poland, on Friday, Aug. 1, 2014. PKN Orlen, Poland's biggest oil company, posted a record quarterly loss after writing down the value of its refiners in Lithuania and the Czech Republic. Photographer: Bartek Sadowski

The same day Linn Energy Inc. exited bankruptcy, it awarded Chief Executive Officer Mark Ellis a $60 million compensation package, more than three times the amount Exxon Mobil Corp. paid its CEO.

Ellis’s pay included an equity grant worth $58 million, split between restricted shares and so-called Class B units, which are classified as profit interests for tax purposes, according to a regulatory filing Wednesday. Both vest in increments over four years, but the units are deliverable only when Linn’s equity value exceeds $2 billion. That condition has already been satisfied, the filing said.

The Houston-based exploration and production company exited Chapter 11 protection in February of last year. The collapse in oil and gas prices that begun in 2014 sent the firm reeling after 62 transactions over the previous decade had ballooned its debt load to about $4 billion .

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump and Kim May Meet in Sweden or Switzerland, Sources Say

Ellis, who’s led the company since 2010, also received $900,000 in salary and a $1.04 million bonus. Chief Financial Officer David Rottino and Chief Operating Officer Arden Walker each received awards of $24.7 million. The company didn’t immediately respond to an email and phone call seeking comment.

For the first year on the job, Exxon CEO Darren Woods made $17.5 million. His pay consisted of a $1.2 million salary, $1.85 million cash bonus and performance shares valued at $10.8 million.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read CEO Awarded $60 Million to Lead Linn Energy Firm Past Bankruptcy on bloomberg.comAn AT&T Inc. executive told a judge that the company’s contentious relationship with Comcast Corp. is evidence that the two rivals wouldn’t coordinate to withhold content from upstart distributors if AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner Inc. goes through, as the U.S. claims.

John Stankey, who leads AT&T’s merger-integration team and will oversee Time Warner if the $85 billion deal closes, testified Wednesday in federal court in Washington that dealing with Comcast’s dishonest claims about AT&T in some advertisements is like “playing whack-a-mole.”

More from Bloomberg.com: Trump and Kim May Meet in Sweden or Switzerland, Sources Say

“I’m not going to cooperate with someone I don’t like,” Stankey said under questioning by Daniel Petrocelli, the lead attorney for AT&T and Time Warner in the government’s lawsuit to block the deal. Stankey also said that coordinating with Comcast would be detrimental to AT&T’s plans to innovate. “We don’t want to cooperate with Comcast and play their game,” he said.

Stankey, who said the merger would result in $2.5 billion in annual synergies, denied another key claim in the Justice Department’s lawsuit: that the combined company would use access to Time Warner’s popular HBO network to punish distributors who asked for arbitration in programming talks under a proposed deal to gain support for the merger.

More from Bloomberg.com: Jet Engine That Exploded Had Metal Weakness Signs, U.S. Says

“We clearly had no interest whatsoever in doing anything the government alleges,” said Stankey, who led AT&T’s acquisition of DirecTV in 2015. “That just isn’t gonna happen.”

More from Bloomberg.com

Read AT&T's Merger Boss Mocks U.S. Claim About Comcast Coordination on bloomberg.comInside the Q1 earnings of banking stocks and their impact on financial ETFs.

Shares of several major semiconductor industry stocks were down in early morning trading Wednesday after the latest quarterly earnings reports from equipment suppliers ASML Holding ASML and Lam Research LRCX caused hesitation.

Nevertheless, there were plenty of positives to take away from both of these reports. Lam Research surpassed estimates on the top and bottom lines, reporting total revenue growth of 34.2% on 19% higher shipments.

Dutch equipment maker ASML also posted earnings and revenue beats. The firm also notched net sales growth of 35.7% and adjusted earnings growth of 12.3%. However, ASML said it expects gross profit margin to slip to about 43% in the second quarter from 48.7% in the first quarter.

Lam Research investors might also be concerned about slumping margins. The company said non-GAAP gross margin for the March quarter was down about 80 basis points from the previous quarter to 46.8%, and it expects that figure to fall in the range of 46.5% to 48.5% for the current quarter.

Lam also mentioned that it expects shipments to be between $2.85 billion and $3.15 billion in the quarter, which is slightly sluggish compared to the $3.13 billion in shipments witnessed during the March period.

Overall, Lam Research guided for adjusted earnings in the range of $4.80 to $5.20 per share and revenue of $2.95 to $3.25 billion—both of which exceeded our previous consensus estimates.

Still, both LRCX and ASML were met with volatility on Wednesday morning. Lam Research opened lower and quickly dipped to an intraday low of $196.50 per share, down about 7.5% from Tuesday’s close. ASML shares slumped as much as $9.70, or 4.6%, in early trading hours.

Analysts were quick to declare Lam Research’s post-earnings selloff a buying opportunity, with teams from Evercore ISI, Stifel, and B. Riley FBR all maintaining bullish stances.

“At or near $200, we are buyers all day long,” Evercore said in a note. “Put simply, the cost of adding each new memory bit is rising significantly across both DRAM and NAND, which should sustain elevated WFE for years to come.”

Stifel elaborated further, saying Lam Research’s shipments outlook “could embolden bears who believe we are at the 'peak' of the cycle and in particular, on the memory front, where there are concerns on oversupply and overcapacity,” but reiterated its buy rating for the stock.

But mixed reactions to the reports were enough to inspire selling throughout the semiconductor space early Wednesday morning. Shares of Micron MU opened lower before surging back to Tuesday’s close, Texas Instruments TXN was down as much as 1%, and Applied Materials AMAT dipped nearly 5%.

Overall, the iShares PHLX Semiconductor ETF SOXX slumped $25.77, or 1.9%, to a mid-morning low of $1331.95 per share. However, the fund bounced of this daily low around 10:30 am EST.

Want more market analysis from this author? Make sure to follow @Ryan_McQueeney on Twitter!

Can Hackers Put Money INTO Your Portfolio?

Earlier this year, credit bureau Equifax announced a massive data breach affecting 2 out of every 3 Americans. The cybersecurity industry is expanding quickly in response to this and similar events. But some stocks are better investments than others.

Zacks has just released Cybersecurity! An Investor’s Guide to help Zacks.com readers make the most of the $170 billion per year investment opportunity created by hackers and other threats. It reveals 4 stocks worth looking into right away.

Download the new report now>>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



ISHARS-PHLX SEM (SOXX): ETF Research Reports



Texas Instruments Incorporated (TXN) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Micron Technology, Inc. (MU) : Free Stock Analysis Report



ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Lam Research Corporation (LRCX) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Applied Materials, Inc. (AMAT) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchInvestors are always looking for stocks that are poised to beat at earnings season and Danaher Corporation DHR may be one such company. The firm has earnings coming up pretty soon, and events are shaping up quite nicely for their report.



That is because Danaher is seeing favorable earnings estimate revision activity as of late, which is generally a precursor to an earnings beat. After all, analysts raising estimates right before earnings—with the most up-to-date information possible—is a pretty good indicator of some favorable trends underneath the surface for DHR in this report.



Analysts have very recently bumped up their estimates for DHR, giving the stock a Zacks Earnings ESP of +1.45% heading into earnings season.



Danaher Corporation Price and EPS Surprise

Danaher Corporation Price and EPS Surprise | Danaher Corporation Quote

Why is this Important?



A positive reading for the Zacks Earnings ESP has proven to be very powerful in producing both positive surprises, and outperforming the market. Our recent 10 year backtest shows that stocks that have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better show a positive surprise nearly 70% of the time, and have returned over 28% on average in annual returns (see more Top Earnings ESP stocks here).



Given that DHR has a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy) and an ESP in positive territory, investors might want to consider this stock ahead of earnings. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.



Clearly, recent earnings estimate revisions suggest that good things are ahead for Danaher, and that a beat might be in the cards for the upcoming report.



Can Hackers Put Money INTO Your Portfolio?



Earlier this year, credit bureau Equifax announced a massive data breach affecting 2 out of every 3 Americans. The cybersecurity industry is expanding quickly in response to this and similar events. But some stocks are better investments than others.



Zacks has just released Cybersecurity! An Investor’s Guide to help Zacks.com readers make the most of the $170 billion per year investment opportunity created by hackers and other threats. It reveals 4 stocks worth looking into right away.

Download the new report now>>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Danaher Corporation (DHR) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchDanaher (DHR) reports an impressive first-quarter 2018 adjusted earnings on the back of solid top-line growth.

Textron Inc. TXT, the aerospace and defense company is globally known for its most recognizable and valuable brand names such as the Bell Helicopter. This diversified U.S. conglomerate has a strong presence in diverse areas of business jets and other general aviation aircraft, helicopter and aircraft engines.

However, global political uncertainties and intensifying competition causes of concern.

Textron Inc. Price and EPS Surprise

Textron Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Textron Inc. Quote

Earnings Surprise History

Textron has reported a negative earnings surprise of 3.90% in the fourth quarter. However, the company reported positive earnings surprises in two of the last four quarters with an average positive surprise of 2.51%.

Zacks Rank

Currently, Textron has a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), but that could definitely change following Textron’s first-quarter 2018 earnings report which was just released. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

We have mentioned below some of the vital information from this just-revealed announcement:

Earnings Beat: Our consensus called for first-quarter EPS of 46 cents, and the company reported EPS of 72 cents.

Revenue Beat: Textron posted revenues of $3.30 billion in first-quarter, compared to our consensus estimate of $3.11 billion.

Key Developments to Note

Textron has reiterated its guidance for 2018. The company continues to expect 2018 earnings per share from continuing operations in the range of $2.95 - $3.15 per share.

Stock Price: Following the earnings release, share prices for the company made no significant change in the pre-market trading session.

Check back later for our full write up on this Textron earnings report later!

Can Hackers Put Money INTO Your Portfolio?



Earlier this year, credit bureau Equifax announced a massive data breach affecting 2 out of every 3 Americans. The cybersecurity industry is expanding quickly in response to this and similar events. But some stocks are better investments than others.



Zacks has just released Cybersecurity! An Investor’s Guide to help Zacks.com readers make the most of the $170 billion per year investment opportunity created by hackers and other threats. It reveals 4 stocks worth looking into right away.



Download the new report now>>





Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Textron Inc. (TXT) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchInvestors in Facebook, Inc. FB need to pay close attention to the stock based on moves in the options market lately. That is because the Apr 20, 2018 $180 Call had some of the highest implied volatility of all equity options today.

What is Implied Volatility?

Implied volatility shows how much movement the market is expecting in the future. Options with high levels of implied volatility suggest that investors in the underlying stocks are expecting a big move in one direction or the other. It could also mean there is an event coming up soon that may cause a big rally or a huge sell-off. However, implied volatility is only one piece of the puzzle when putting together an options trading strategy.

What do the Analysts Think?

Clearly, options traders are pricing in a big move for Facebook shares, but what is the fundamental picture for the company? Currently, Facebook is a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) in the Internet - Services industry that ranks in the Bottom 37% of our Zacks Industry Rank. Over the last 30 days, no analysts have increased their earnings estimates for the current quarter, while four analysts have revised their estimate downward. The net effect has taken our Zacks Consensus Estimate for the current quarter from $1.37 per share to $1.36 in that period.

Given the way analysts feel about Facebook right now, this huge implied volatility could mean there’s a trade developing. Oftentimes, options traders look for options with high levels of implied volatility to sell premium. This is a strategy many seasoned traders use because it captures decay. At expiration, the hope for these traders is that the underlying stock does not move as much as originally expected.

Looking to Trade Options?

Each week, our very own Dave Bartosiak gives his top options trades. Check out his recent live analysis and options trade for the NFLX earnings report completely free. See it here: Trading Netflix's (NFLX) Earnings with Options or check out the embedded video below for more details:



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Facebook, Inc. (FB) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.CF Industries Holdings is one of the ten dividend stocks that can help raise your investment income by paying sizeable dividends. These stocks are a safe bet to increase your portfolio value as they provide both steady income and cushion against market risks. Dividends play an important role in compounding returns in the long run and end up forming a sizeable part of investment returns. Here are other similar dividend stocks that could be valuable additions to your current holdings.

CF Industries Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:CF)

CF Industries Holdings, Inc. manufactures and distributes nitrogen fertilizers and other nitrogen products worldwide. Formed in 1946, and currently headed by CEO W. Will, the company currently employs 2,950 people and with the company’s market capitalisation at USD $9.12B, we can put it in the mid-cap group.

CF has a sizeable dividend yield of 3.07% and is distributing 78.27% of earnings as dividends . In the case of CF, they have increased their dividend per share from US$0.08 to US$1.20 so in the past 10 years. They have been dependable too, not missing a single payment in this time. Continue research on CF Industries Holdings here.

NYSE:CF Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

Alliant Energy Corporation (NYSE:LNT)

Alliant Energy Corporation operates as a utility holding company that provides regulated electricity and natural gas services in the Midwest region of the United States. Formed in 1917, and currently headed by CEO Patricia Kampling, the company provides employment to 3,989 people and with the stock’s market cap sitting at USD $9.69B, it comes under the mid-cap category.

LNT has a solid dividend yield of 3.20% and is distributing 63.48% of earnings as dividends . The company’s DPS has increased from US$0.70 to US$1.34 over the last 10 years. During this period, they haven’t missed a payment, as one would expect from a company increasing their dividend. Interested in Alliant Energy? Find out more here.

NYSE:LNT Historical Dividend Yield Apr 18th 18 More

L Brands, Inc. operates as a specialty retailer of women’s intimate and other apparel, beauty and personal care products, home fragrance products, and accessories. Formed in 1963, and currently run by Leslie Wexner, the company size now stands at 59,200 people and with the company’s market cap sitting at USD $10.10B, it falls under the large-cap stocks category.

Story ContinuesIncome investing and the tech industry might seem like polar opposites. Technology companies are typically home to groundbreaking innovations like artificial intelligence and self-driving cars. Their stocks are also the starting point for many investors seeking capital appreciation, but the area is largely ignored by income investors, in favor of more traditional dividend plays.

That doesn't mean that high-yielders can't be found among the tech giants, and investors may be doing themselves a disservice by bypassing the potential for significant growth while they receive their regular dividend payments.

With that in mind, we asked three Motley Fool investors to choose tech companies that pay a high yield, while offering the potential for additional growth. They offered convincing arguments for Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE: VZ), Qualcomm Incorporated (NASDAQ: QCOM), and International Business Machines (NYSE: IBM).

Man in a suit watering a plant shaped like an upward pointing arrow. The plant pot is surrounded by stacks of gold coins. More

Image source: Getty Images.

Let this stable dividend compound

Steve Symington (Verizon): With an annual dividend yield of 4.8%, supported by its status as the largest wireless carrier in the U.S., I think investors would do well to pick up shares of Verizon today.

Most recently, the company ended 2017 by adding 1.2 million retail postpaid wireless connections in the fourth quarter, bringing its total to 116.3 million. Verizon also maintained excellent customer loyalty with postpaid phone churn of 0.77%, the metric's 11th straight quarter below 0.9%. Combined with modest growth from its Fios segment -- where increases in Fios Internet customers have more than offset losses in Fios Video connections -- as well as sales from its Oath subsidiary, which encompasses more than 50 media and tech brands including Yahoo!, tumblr, TechCrunch, HuffPost, and AOL, management says investors can safely expect Verizon to deliver solid low-single-digit percent growth in both revenue and adjusted earnings this year.

And thanks to recent U.S. tax reform, Verizon estimates that its operating cash flow this year will benefit to the tune of $3.5 billion to $4.0 billion -- a sum it will use primarily to strengthen its balance sheet. This shouldn't be terribly surprising, as the company is investing heavily in the impending commercial launch of its 5G network set for later this year.

Three young people sitting next to each other, all texting. MoreKraken co-founder and CEO Jesse Powell says the cryptocurrency exchange will not comply with the New York attorney general's request for information.Kraken CEO Jesse Powell had strong words for New York regulators who sought to compel the San Francisco-based exchange to participate in its new Virtual Market Integrity Initiative, which demands that trading platforms be more transparent.

Earlier this week, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman began an inquiry into the operations of popular cryptocurrency exchanges. As part of the probe, his office sent detailed, 34-point questionnaires to 13 different exchanges — including Kraken — who were instructed to complete the forms by the beginning of May.

Most exchanges responded positively to the letters, stating publicly that they were looking forward to cooperating with the AG’s inquiry and increasing transparency in the nascent space.

However, Powell — whose exchange ranks in the top 15 in daily trading volume — struck a much more critical tone in his remarks, which he published on Twitter.

He wrote:

“Kraken’s BitLicense-prompted exit from New York in 2015 pays another dividend today. When I saw this 34-point demand, with a deadline 2 weeks out, I immediately thought ‘The audacity of these guys — the entitlement, the disrespect for our business, our time! The resource diversion for this production is massive. This is going to completely blow up our roadmap!’ Then I realized that we made the right decision to get the hell out of New York three years ago and that we can dodge this bullet.”

As he alluded in his comments, Kraken ceased operations in New York in 2015 as part of the “Great Bitcoin Exodus” that occurred after the state’s Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) introduced the controversial BitLicense, which requires cryptocurrency companies to submit to a rigorous regulatory process before they can serve New York residents.

Powell said that Kraken is ordinarily quite open to helping regulators understand the exchange’s business operations, as well as the nascent cryptocurrency space writ-large. However, he criticized the AG’s “tone-deaf” approach, arguing that the state is a hostile environment for businesses.

“But when is it going to be enough for New York? We did all this once already, and then you gave us the BitLicense. Why don’t you try extracting this information from those businesses actually operating in your state? Kraken left New York because New York is hostile to crypto, and this ‘questionnaire’ we received today proves that New York is not only hostile to crypto, it is hostile to business,” he said.

He also blamed other cryptocurrency exchanges for “kowtowing” to the probe and others like it.

“Somebody has to say what everybody’s actually thinking about the NYAG’s inquiry. The placative kowtowing toward this kind of abuse sends the message that it’s ok. It’s not ok. It’s insulting,” he concluded. “Good luck New Yorkers.”

Featured image from YouTube/Economist Test Prep.



The post ‘Insulting’: Kraken CEO Refuses to Comply with New York’s Crypto Exchange Probe appeared first on CCN.

The SEADRILL 3, the first of four oil rigs that Keppel FELS is building for the same customer, is seen in Singapore in this April 21, 2006 file photo. REUTERS/Luis Enrique Ascui/Files

By Nerijus Adomaitis

OSLO (Reuters) - Offshore oil driller Seadrill plans to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy in late June or early July to catch the rising wave of rig market activity, its chief executive told said on Wednesday.

The company won U.S. court approval on Tuesday for its multi-billion dollar debt restructuring plan after reaching a deal with more than 40 banks, unsecured creditors and shipyards.

"The confirmation is the most significant milestone in the process, and now we need to implement the plan over 60 to 90 days. Obviously, we would like to do it as fast as possible," CEO Anton Dibowitz told Reuters.

Seadrill plans to expand relations with Schlumberger, the world's largest oil services firm, and other suppliers to the global oil and gas industry, although the company had no immediate consolidation plans, he added.

Seadrill is already cooperating with Schlumberger in India to offer integrated drilling services.

"Equally, we are in discussions with all major oil service companies, and if there are opportunities that makes sense for both of us, we will certainly entertain that," Dibowitz said.

Seadrill was forced to seek bankruptcy court protection from creditors after a sharp drop in oil prices in 2014 cut oil firms' appetite for exploration, pushing rates for rigs down and leaving many idle.

Oil companies have since returned to the market, hiring rigs to explore for offshore oil and gas deposits after crude prices have traded above $60 a barrel since November. Brent was trading at $72 at 1303 GMT.

Out of 51 rig marketed by Seadrill, which include rigs owned by its non-consolidated entities, such as Seadrill Partners, 31 rigs are currently employed.

Seadrill said the approved plan, which extends maturities of $5.7 billion in bank debts, converts $2.3 billion of unsecured bonds to equity and injects $1 billion in new debt and equity, would enable the company to take advantage of a market recovery.

"We are fully confident that it (the drilling market) would recover within the next five years, and now we have a runway that we needed in order to see that," Dibowitz said.

Norwegian-born billionaire John Fredriksen will retain control of Seadrill with a stake of just under 30 percent in the restructured company, up from 24 percent previously.

Fredriksen, whose business empire includes the largest salmon farmer Marine Harvest and oil tanker firm Frontline, is committed to remaining a long-term stakeholder, Dibowitz said.

He added that Fredriksen "was absolutely integral to striking the deal with the banks, and I expect that he will continue to be the anchor shareholder going forward."

Dibowitz, Seadrill's CEO since July 2017, said he expected to remain at the helm of the company after its restructuring.





(Editing by Terje Solsvik and Edmund Blair)Markets Insider





Shares of Helios & Matheson Information Technology, the parent company of MoviePass, sank more than 40% Thursday after the company announced it sold new stock at a hefty discount.

Helios & Matheson said in a regulatory filing late Wednesday that it had sold 10.5 million shares at a price of $2.75 — a hefty 28% discount form its closing price earlier that day of $3.83. When markets opened Thursday, the stock's price tanked.

The losses come at an inconvenient time for MoviePass, which is struggling to stay afloat amid heavy losses. Earlier this week, the company's auditor, Rosenberg Rich Baker Berman & Co., said it had "substantial doubt" that Movie Pass could stay in business after reporting a $150 million loss.

Helios & Matheson CEO Ted Farnsworth downplayed the significance of the "going concern" warning to Business Insider, saying such a warning was in "pretty much most" 10-K filings when a company is running at a loss. "If they don't raise money, they could go out of business," he continued.

Such statements, though, aren't triggered by a company's profits or losses. Instead, they reflect the auditor's view on how viable a company is in the year forward.

Since MoviePass dropped its subscription price to $9.95 a month last summer, which allows members to see one movie per day in theaters, it has shaken up the industry. It has attracted millions of new subscribers, but many have questioned how it will continue to sustain itself financially given that it's paying most theaters full price for movie tickets.

Still, Farnsworth remains committed to the portfolio company. "I'm the biggest fan because I see what's going on from the inside and what Mitch is creating here," he said.

Jason Guerrasio contributed to this report.

NOW WATCH: Wall Street's biggest bull explains why trade war fears are way overblown

See Also:

SEE ALSO: MoviePass' auditor says there's 'substantial doubt' about its ability to stay in business — as it reports a $150.8 million lossShares of Helios and Matheson Analytics, the majority owner of MoviePass, plummeted more than 40% in early trading Thursday after it announced the pricing of a $30 million public share offering.

Helios and Matheson, which owns 92% of the MoviePass upstart movie-theater subscription service, on Thursday said the offering comprised 10.5 million shares at $2.75 per share — 28.2% below Wednesday’s stock closing price of $3.83 per share.

Shares of Helios and Matheson, traded on the Nasdaq with the ticker symbol “HMNY,” have been extremely volatile. The stock is now trading at less than 8% of its 52-week high closing price of $32.90 per share, after opening Thursday at $2.48.

Earlier this week, HMNY stock rose more than 30% as investors latched on to Verizon’s disclosure of a 9.3% ownership stake in the company. HMNY had actually revealed the stock deal with Verizon on April 5, as part of Helios and Matheson’s acquisition of the Moviefone service from Verizon’s Oath unit.

Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Helios and Matheson disclosed that an independent auditor had raised “substantial doubt” about MoviePass’s ability to continue operating as “a going concern.” HMNY reported a loss of $150.8 million in 2017, which it attributed to its acquisition of MoviePass in August 2017, on revenue of $10.4 million.

In its announcement Thursday, Helios and Matheson said the offering of 10.5 million shares is expected to close on or about April 23, 2018. The company said it may use the net proceeds to increase its ownership stake in MoviePass “or to support the operations of MoviePass and MoviePass Ventures.” It also said it might use the expected funds to pay off debt, for “general corporate purposes and transaction expenses,” or to make other acquisitions.

Related stories

MoviePass Auditor Raises 'Substantial Doubt' About Subscription Business

MoviePass CEO Says Company Won't Sell User Data

The Great Disruptor: MoviePass Upends the Movie Business, but Can It Survive?

Subscribe to Variety Newsletters and Email Alerts!Shares of Helios and Matheson Analytics (NASDAQ: HMNY) are sinking on Thursday, heading sharply lower after the company announced it would sell up to $150 million in a secondary stock offering after Wednesday's market close. Once completed, the transaction will beef up the coffers of the company that's taking some big consolidated losses with its 92% stake in MoviePass, but it will also dramatically jack up its share count. It priced $30 million of the shares in a spot secondary at $2.75 on Thursday morning.

There are good reasons for a stock slipping after an ownership dilutive deal. There are even better ones for Helios and Matheson to be going this route. Let's go over why the MoviePass controlling stakeholder is trying to raise some money here.

Four people sitting on a couch on a stage to promote MoviePass and iHeart Radio at a film festival. More

Image source: MoviePass.

1. MoviePass is losing a lot of money

If MoviePass is a deal that seems too good to be true -- offering its more than 2 million members access to as much as a traditional screening of a movie per day for just $9.95 a month -- you're right. MoviePass pays retail for most of those tickets, so a subscriber is already running at a loss for the company even if they see a single movie in many cases. The country's leading exhibitor revealed late last year that it was collecting $11.88 per ticket from MoviePass.

Helios and Matheson argues that MoviePass will be able to offset its costs by selling the data that it's collecting, get paid to promote theatrical releases, and grab a piece of the multiplex action. It has already negotiated deals with smaller chains for as much as a 20% discount of the ticket prices. It's also hoping to score a portion of concession sales. Larger chains have not played along, but MoviePass' leverage should grow as its subscriber base climbs.

We've never had a clear snapshot of how much money MoviePass is losing, but we got closer this week. Helios and Matheson filed its annual report on Tuesday. It recorded a $150.8 million loss in 2017, but that didn't provide enough of a glimpse into the carnage. A lot of non-MoviePass items made up the lion's share of that hole. The MoviePass acquisition didn't hit the books until Dec. 11, with just three weeks to go in the fiscal year.

However, we got a clearer but still fuzzy admission of the related red ink in Wednesday night's offering filing. Helios and Matheson believes that its average cash deficit has been roughly $20 million per month from the end of September through the end of March. We're looking at roughly $120 million over the past six months, and that's a cash -- not fiscal -- deficit. The assumption here is that it's including all of the folks who have prepaid for several months or as long as a year of service, and MoviePass had $54.4 million in deferred revenue at the end of 2017. When you also consider that this is an inverted scalable model where it's losing more money the larger it grows (making the deficit much larger for March at the end of that six-month average than October at the beginning), this is probably a company losing a lot more than $20 million a month.

Helios and Matheson had $42 million in cash at the end of March. Even with access to credit, it can only be selling discounted annual subscriptions for so long before the cash crunch comes. The $150 million will help.FILE PHOTO - Visitors pass in front of the Chinese telecoms equipment group ZTE Corp booth at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, February 26, 2018. REUTERS/Sergio Perez/File Photo

By Olof Swahnberg and Eric Auchard

STOCKHOLM/LONDON (Reuters) - Investors are warming to beleaguered mobile network makers Ericsson and Nokia as they begin to recover ahead of a once-a-decade uplift from a new business cycle and an unexpected boost from a U.S. ban on exports to low-cost Chinese rival ZTE.

ZTE has snatched market share in Europe and the Americas, growing four times faster in those markets last year than it did its home market and acting as a drag on contract pricing and revenue growth for Ericsson and Nokia.

But now, ZTE has been slapped with a potentially devastating seven-year export ban. It has yet to say how it may respond to U.S. threats to cut off its supply chain.

Ericsson is due to report results on Friday and Nokia next Thursday and the focus is likely to be on next-generation 5G network upgrades expected to start later in 2018 or during 2019, ending a three-to-four year dry spell in network spending.

ZTE, meanwhile, has postponed its own quarterly results announcement, which was due on Thursday.

Ericsson shares are up 3 percent in April while Nokia has gained 6 percent.

Bengt Nordstrom, head of telecoms consultancy Northstream, said it could take several months for ZTE to find alternative suppliers and redesign its products, including optical and mobile gear. "This is a very serious setback for ZTE," he said.

Whether or not a Commerce Department ban on U.S. firms supplying components to ZTE holds up, Ericsson and Nokia still face a tough year ahead amid weak overall market demand as telecom operators keep a tight lid on network capital spending.

Three big players dominate the global market for mobile network gear: Huawei, of China, is the biggest, followed closely by Ericsson and Nokia. Complicating the picture is that Huawei [HWT.UL] and Nokia have more revenue from serving other telecom segments.

The three face competition from ZTE and Korean electronics giant Samsung Electronics, a relative newcomer to the network gear market, and a growing number of more focused software and services challengers.

MODEST REBOUND

Quarterly financial reports for the European names are likely to deliver only muted signs of recovery, even if prospects seem to be brightening further out.

"No one on this planet is ready to break the bank for 5G, even less so with a total lack of 5G business cases," IHS Markit mobile equipment analyst Stephane Teral told Reuters. Even when 5G hits its stride sometime next decade, he warns that capital spending may never return to 4G peak levels of 2015.

Revenue for Europe's two big network gear suppliers remains under pressure in 2018, even if they are making progress towards seeing growth stabilize in 2019, analysts at UBS said, adding this is "more so for Nokia than Ericsson, where there remains much work to be done to rationalize contracts".

Sweden's Ericsson has made sweeping cost cuts, changed most of its management and is focusing on profitability over growth.

Ericsson has spied signs of recovery in a few key markets but cautions that it has more work to do in order to hit profit improvement targets it has pledged to deliver by 2020. A Reuters poll shows that analysts, on average, expect sales to fall 9 percent in the first quarter, with its main networks business declining 11 percent.

Nokia has said it expects its results to bottom this year, and has forecast a recovery in profits by 2020, encouraging investors spooked last year by the general decline in global network spending and acquisition integration missteps.

Most analysts see Nokia recovering faster than Ericsson, which, in a nutshell, is why Nokia shares are up 22 percent so far this year, while Ericsson is up just 1 percent, after the latest in a string of downbeat quarterly reports in January.

Northern Trust analyst Gary Paulin considers Nokia an especially safe bet in a volatile tech market, classifying it as a "fallen angel" - a cheap stock that has suffered a round of setbacks but is on the mend, ready to demonstrate its underlying earnings power once its short-term issues resolve.

By contrast, Credit Suisse says stock market expectations are still too high for Ericsson, which it says will underperform the market due to execution risks from its ongoing restructuring and slower than expected benefits from 5G adoption.

Activist investor Cevian Capital said it is betting on Ericsson to improve profits by increasing efficiency and simplifying how it operates, rather than counting on any 5G boost later this decade.

"When 5G comes it could lift growth and profitability further," said Christer Gardell, managing partner at Cevian Capital which owned 8.5 percent of Ericsson outstanding shares as of February.

(Reporting by Olof Swahnberg in Stockholm and Eric Auchard in London; Editing by Keith Weir)Shares of General Electric GE surged nearly 2% in early morning trading Thursday, just one day before the embattled conglomerate is scheduled to release its latest quarterly earnings report. Investors will want to pay close attention to GE’s results on Friday morning as the iconic brand looks to rebuild confidence from the market.

Earnings growth is expected to be strong throughout the Q1 report season, but the tone surrounding General Electric is concern—not optimism. Mounting debt issues, sluggish performance in core brands, and regulatory headwinds have created a massive headache for the Boston-based company over the past year or so.

GE shares have already dropped another 20% since the start of 2018, and investors will be looking for any sort of rebound catalyst that they can find. But will there be something positive to discover when GE reports tomorrow? Let’s take a closer look.

Latest Outlook and Valuation

Based on our latest Zacks Consensus Estimates, we expect General Electric to report earnings of 11 cents per share and revenue of $27.9 billion. This top-line result would represent a modest year-over-year improvement of 0.8%, but our bottom-line estimate is calling for profits to slump about 47.6%. Investors should also recognize that this EPS estimate has trended down since the start of the quarter.

Heading into today, GE was trading with a Forward P/E of 14.0, which is a noticeable discount to its industry’s average of 17.7x. Within the past year, the stock has traded as high as 14.1x forward 12-month earnings and as low as 13.2x. Its median earnings multiple over that time is 13.5x. Investors will note that there has not been much movement in this key valuation metric for GE over this period.

Earnings ESP Whispers

Investors will also want to anticipate the likelihood that General Electric surprises investors with better-than-anticipated earnings results. For this, we turn to our Earnings ESP figure.

Zacks Earnings ESP (Expected Surprise Prediction) looks to find earnings surprises by focusing on the most recent analyst estimates. This is done because, generally speaking, when an analyst posts an estimate right before an earnings release, it means that they have fresh information which could potentially be more accurate than what analysts thought about a company two or three months ago.

A positive Earnings ESP paired with a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better ranking helps us feel confident about the potential for an earnings beat. In fact, our 10-year backtest has revealed that this methodology has accurately produced a positive surprise 70% of the time.

General Electric is currently holding a Zacks Rank #5 (Strong Sell) and an Earnings ESP of +5.3%. This mean that the most recent analyst estimates have been higher than the consensus. However, due to the stock’s weak Zacks Rank, our model is not conclusively calling for a beat.

Surprise History

Another important thing to consider ahead of General Electric’s report is the company’s history of earnings surprises and the effect that these surprises have had on share prices. We judge the price effect of these earnings beats by comparing the closing price of the stock two days before the report and two days after the report.GE has had an abysmal streak in this regard, moving lower within this window in nine consecutive quarters.

Story ContinuesU.S. stocks closed mixed on Wednesday after gaining over two consecutive winning sessions

Investors are always looking for stocks that are poised to beat at earnings season and Honeywell International Inc. HON may be one such company. The firm has earnings coming up pretty soon, and events are shaping up quite nicely for their report.

That is because Honeywellis seeing favorable earnings estimate revision activity as of late, which is generally a precursor to an earnings beat. After all, analysts raising estimates right before earnings — with the most up-to-date information possible — is a pretty good indicator of some favorable trends underneath the surface for HON in this report.

In fact, the Most Accurate Estimate for the current quarter is currently at $1.90 per share for HON, compared to a broader Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.89 per share. This suggests that analysts have very recently bumped up their estimates for HON, giving the stock a Zacks Earnings ESP of +0.46% heading into earnings season.

Honeywell International Inc. Price and EPS Surprise

Honeywell International Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Honeywell International Inc. Quote

Why is this Important?

A positive reading for the Zacks Earnings ESP has proven to be very powerful in producing both positive surprises, and outperforming the market. Our recent 10-year backtest shows that stocks that have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better show a positive surprise nearly 70% of the time, and have returned over 28% on average in annual returns (see more Top Earnings ESP stocks here).

Given that HON has a Zacks Rank #3 and an ESP in positive territory, investors might want to consider this stock ahead of earnings. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.

Clearly, recent earnings estimate revisions suggest that good things are ahead for Honeywell, and that a beat might be in the cards for the upcoming report.

The Hottest Tech Mega-Trend of All

Last year, it generated $8 billion in global revenues. By 2020, it's predicted to blast through the roof to $47 billion. Famed investor Mark Cuban says it will produce "the world's first trillionaires," but that should still leave plenty of money for regular investors who make the right trades early.

See Zacks' 3 Best Stocks to Play This Trend >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Honeywell International Inc. (HON) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchInvestors are always looking for stocks that are poised to beat at earnings season and Brown & Brown, Inc. BRO may be one such company. The firm has earnings coming up pretty soon, and events are shaping up quite nicely for their report.



That is because Brown & Brown is seeing favorable earnings estimate revision activity as of late, which is generally a precursor to an earnings beat. After all, analysts raising estimates right before earnings—with the most up-to-date information possible—is a pretty good indicator of some favorable trends underneath the surface for BRO in this report.



Analysts have very recently bumped up their estimates for BRO, giving the stock a Zacks Earnings ESP of +1.72% heading into earnings season.

Brown & Brown, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise

Brown & Brown, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Brown & Brown, Inc. Quote

Why is this Important?



A positive reading for the Zacks Earnings ESP has proven to be very powerful in producing both positive surprises, and outperforming the market. Our recent 10 year backtest shows that stocks that have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) or better show a positive surprise nearly 70% of the time, and have returned over 28% on average in annual returns (see more Top Earnings ESP stocks here).



Given that BRO has a Zacks Rank #3 and an ESP in positive territory, investors might want to consider this stock ahead of earnings. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank (Strong Buy) stocks here.



Clearly, recent earnings estimate revisions suggest that good things are ahead for Brown & Brown, and that a beat might be in the cards for the upcoming report.



The Hottest Tech Mega-Trend of All



Last year, it generated $8 billion in global revenues. By 2020, it's predicted to blast through the roof to $47 billion. Famed investor Mark Cuban says it will produce "the world's first trillionaires," but that should still leave plenty of money for regular investors who make the right trades early.



See Zacks' 3 Best Stocks to Play This Trend >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Brown & Brown, Inc. (BRO) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.A Qualcomm Inc. baseband modem integrated circuit (IC) chip, center, of an Apple Inc. iPhone 6 smartphone is seen in an arranged photograph in Bangkok, Thailand, on Saturday, Feb. 3, 2018. Apple Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook told shareholders on Feb. 13 at the company's annual meeting to expect higher dividends and stressed that succession planning is a priority. Photographer: Brent Lewin/Bloomberg

Qualcomm Inc. will cut 1,500 jobs in California, the majority at the chipmaker’s San Diego headquarters, according to documents filed with the state.

Some 1,231 positions will be eliminated in San Diego with terminations starting about June 19, the company said in a WARN, or Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification, notice. Companies are required to make such a state filing when they reduce their workforce by 50 or more employees within a 30-day period. At the same time, about 269 workers will lose their jobs at the company’s Santa Clara and San Jose locations.

The largest maker of smartphone chips pledged in January that it would slash $1 billion in expenses to improve earnings, part of its efforts to fight off a hostile takeover bid from rival Broadcom Inc. Qualcomm’s management team now must live up to its vow and work to solve other problems that have hampered revenue and profit growth. Annual sales have fallen every year since 2015 and are projected to decline 3 percent in fiscal 2018.

More from Bloomberg.com: Rosenstein Tells Trump He’s Not a Target in Mueller, Cohen Probes

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Qualcomm to Cut 1,500 Jobs in California, State Filings Show on bloomberg.comThe logo of Qualcomm is seen during the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain February 27, 2018. REUTERS/Yves Herman

By Munsif Vengattil

(Reuters) - Qualcomm Inc has begun cutting jobs as part of its promise to investors to cut annual costs by $1 billion (£704.6 million), the chipmaker said on Wednesday.

"Qualcomm is conducting a reduction of our full-time and temporary workforce," a company spokesperson who declined to be identifies said, without disclosing the exact numbers of job cuts.

Though the company first evaluated non-headcount expense reductions, it concluded that a workforce reduction is needed to support long-term growth and success, the spokesperson said.

Qualcomm said it offered affected employees severance packages. It employed about 33,800 full-time, part-time and temporary employees, as of Sept 24.

Bloomberg, which first reported the layoffs, said the size of the job cuts is large enough that Qualcomm will have to file a WARN notice, or Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification, with the state of California.

Qualcomm had in January said it would implement a series of targeted reductions across businesses to save $1 billion in annual costs, as part of its attempt to win over investors support against a hostile bid from rival Broadcom Inc.

The bid, however, was cancelled by the Trump administration on national security grounds.

The chipmaker has been ramping up its operations since then to improve earnings growth.





(Reporting by Munsif Vengattil in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Cynthia Osterman)Today, chip maker Qualcomm began the process of laying off around 1,500 workers in California. The move is a part of the company's promise to its investors that it would cut costs by about $1 billion, according to Bloomberg.

This action comes after a hostile takeover bid from rival Broadcom. Qualcomm pledged that it would cut costs in order to improve earnings, but shareholders were more interested in Broadcom's offer. However, President Trump intervened in the potential merger, blocking it in the interest of national security. Now, Qualcomm must take steps to improve its earnings. Cutting jobs is, unfortunately, one of those steps.

A person with knowledge of the situation told Bloomberg that these layoffs represented the majority of the job cuts Qualcomm would make, though there would be some others in different departments. The company did look at other options before resorting to layoffs. "We first evaluated non-headcount expense reductions, but we concluded that a workforce reduction is needed to support long-term growth and success, which will ultimately benefit all our stakeholders," the company said in a statement to Bloomberg.

BloombergMany stocks used Wednesday as a day to consolidate, but some stocks posted big moves. Here are the stock trades for tomorrow catching our eye as we prepare for Thursday’s trading session.

Trades for Tomorrow: Square Stock

Square Inc (NYSE:SQ) is starting to feel its bullish mojo again, bursting higher by about 5% on Wednesday. That makes this call buyer happy, I’m sure, because as of Wednesday they still have a massive position.

Top trades for SQ stock More

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

The pullback in February and in late March coincided with the declines in the broader market. However, its key trend-line of support (in black) held up well. As a result, SQ stock is moving higher and powerfully pushed through $50. There’s no guarantee it won’t fall back down to trend-line support in the upper-$40s, but the pieces are there for a rally to $57.50, its former highs. So bulls can look to buy tomorrow.

Trades for Tomorrow: Micron Stock

$50 was a key level in Micron Technology, Inc. (NASDAQ:MU) that many investors were watching. It looked like an obvious bounce trade in early April after a selloff from $62 despite strong earnings. The bounce played out early, sucking in new investors looking for a payout. The market (as if on queue) flushed out a number of traders by plunging MU stock down to $48, running stop-loss orders all along the way.

Top trades for MU stock More

What now? As you can see at the bottom of the chart (in yellow), momentum is starting to turn, favoring the bulls. Micron’s strong rally on Wednesday pushed the stock above $54, a critical move now that shares are above that level of resistance (blue line). The hope for bulls is that Micron stock is flat or higher on Thursday and eventually finds $54 as support rather than resistance.

Trades for Tomorrow: Chipotle Stock

In early Wednesday trading, we had high hopes that Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (NYSE:CMG) stock was having one those “this is it” moments.

Top trades for CMG stock More

On the chart above, $345 was momentary support back in August before acting as resistance through 2018. That looked like it was ending Wednesday, before CMG’s 5% gain evaporated to just a 1% gain. If Chipotle stock could have held those gains and cleared $350, there was nothing standing in the way (technically speaking) for a run to $400.

Investors should wait to see if CMG can clear this level. Note: Here’s how to play an earnings breakout in Chipotle.





Trades for Tomorrow: FedEx Stock

After reporting earnings back in March, FedEx Corporation (NYSE:FDX) was breaking out. However, that turned out to be a false breakout, as shown in purple below.

Top trades for FDX stock More

Along with the rest of the market, FDX stock was promptly hammered lower until it found support $20 per share lower, around $235. It trapped longs (me included) who bought into the breakout of a company with strong fundamentals. Patience (and luck) are paying off though.

Story ContinuesStocks closed broadly lower Thursday, snapping a three-day winning streak.

Losses in technology companies and consumer products makers and health care stocks accounted for much of the decline. Banks bucked the downward trend and rose along with bond yields. Energy stocks also rose.

On Thursday:

The S&P 500 index fell 15.51 points, or 0.6 percent, to 2,693.13.

The Dow Jones industrial average slid 83.18 points, or 0.3 percent, to 24,664.89.

The Nasdaq composite lost 57.18 points, or 0.8 percent, to 7,238.06.

The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks gave up 9.74 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,573.82.

For the week:

The S&P 500 is up 36.83 points, or 1.4 percent.

The Dow is up 304.75 points, or 1.3 percent.

The Nasdaq is up 131.41 points, or 1.8 percent.

The Russell 2000 is up 24.31 points, or 1.6 percent.

For the year:

The S&P 500 is up 19.52 points, or 0.7 percent.

The Dow is down 54.33 points, or 0.2 percent.

The Nasdaq is up 334.67 points, or 4.9 percent.

The Russell 2000 is up 38.31 points, or 2.5 percent.Before news broke that it had improperly obtained millions of Facebook users' data and undercover videos showed executives listing entrapment among the nefarious ways it could halt political opponents, Cambridge Analytica was reportedly working on a digital currency. And, interestingly, the cryptocurrency was apparently going to be marketed as a way to fund a system through which users could store and sell their online data. Sources told Reuters that the data firm had consulted a company on how to structure an initial coin offering (ICO).

A Cambridge Analytica spokesperson didn't discuss the ICO but did tell Reuters, "Prior to the Facebook controversy, we were developing a suite of technologies to help individuals reclaim their personal data from corporate entities and to have full transparency and control over how their personal data are used. We were exploring multiple options for people to manage and monetise their personal data, including blockchain technology." And while that seems laughable in light of all of the recent discoveries about the firm and its actions, former Cambridge Analytica employee Brittany Kaiser told the New York Times, "Who knows more about the usage of personal data than Cambridge Analytica? So why not build a platform that reconstructs the way that works?"

Cambridge Analytica was also reportedly involved in the creation of a digital token called the Dragon Coin, which was designed to help gamblers get their money into Macau casinos and has been linked to an infamous Macau gangster.

Cryptocurrencies and ICOs have come under intense scrutiny in the US. The SEC formed a Cyber Unit last year and has brought fraud charges against a number of individuals and companies, as has the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The SEC also issued a warning that it was "looking closely" at companies that suddenly shift their interests to blockchain or digital currencies and it sent subpoenas and requests for information to a number of firms last month. The agency also warned celebrities about endorsing ICOs. In February, a study noted that nearly half of the ICOs launched in 2017 had already failed.[caption id="attachment_7070" align="alignleft" width="620"] Jeffrey Wernick, investor involved with Bitcoin (from left); Brittany Kaiser, former Cambridge Analytica business development director; and Krzysztof Gagacki, founder of IOVO. (Photo: Ian Lopez/ALM)The Facebook Cambridge Analytica scandal is redefining how people view and interact with social media, but it’s also spotlighting the legal framework around data privacy in the U.S. and how consumers can change it.[/caption] Speaking at an April 18 press conference in New York, former Cambridge Analytica business development director Brittany Kaiser joined a panel in proposing that internet users declare their data personal property, and utilize blockchain—the technology underlying Bitcoin—as a means for collectively pursuing a legal framework. And the pursuit, in her view, could prove lucrative. Companies like Google parent Alphabet and Facebook are among “the world’s most powerful” said Kaiser, who has been coined by news outlets a “whistleblower” in Cambridge Analytica’s data practices. “All their value assets are based off the personal data of individuals. The value of the platform is that it continues to collect data on all of us on a day-to-day basis.” Kaiser, who holds an LLM and specializes in international law, noted that many look to European Union data laws—which require EU citizens to “opt in” to have data collected, as opposed to the U.S.’ “opt out” model—as a template for change. “But those European laws don’t go far enough,” she said. “It still doesn’t give you transparency on all the types of data being collected on you.” Part of the reason is that data collected by groups like Facebook, as in the case with Cambridge Analytica, are shared with third parties, which then can use the information for their own purposes. And while U.S. users can opt out of sharing, the ability isn’t always made obvious. “Not many people know that there’s an option to opt out,” Kaiser said. “You have to look for yourself, and it’s not easy.” What’s more, while a user can opt to have their data deleted, Kaiser noted that such a process is difficult if one has been using a social media platform for 10-plus years. “You have to have quite a bit of money and very good lawyers to win some of those cases to remove your data after it’s been collected and been made available to others.” Fellow panelist Krzysztof Gagacki, founder of data management company IOVO, agreed. “Right now, we have the technology that can support the entire change of the data economic priority that is ongoing,” he explained. Gagacki posited that legal issues surrounding data stem from the inception of the internet. “[S]ince it was created in a spontaneous way, there were no regulations dedicated to data ownership. That’s why all the companies making their presence on the internet, they all basically make their revenues out of monetizing our data.” “If we don’t stop it now, then the future generation, they will have no rights, no knowledge about their digital property, which is crucial,” Gagacki added. However, data literacy isn’t the average person’s strong suit. As Kaiser, who was recently named an advisory board member at IOVO, explained, “There’s a very low amount of data literacy among individuals. Most people don’t understand what it means when they click yes on terms and conditions.” And such clicking has been going on for over a decade. Kaiser noted that she was working with data collection as far back as the 2007 presidential campaign for Barack Obama. Further, she said that the U.S. is far from the only country that collects data for political operations, set apart only in that there’s “a plethora of data that is legal for you to purchase or license.” “For many years, I never questioned it. This is the way the political system works, the advertising industry, every single industry in the business of digital communication, that’s the way it works.” In Kaiser’s view, however, free access to platforms like Facebook in exchange for consumer data isn’t “a good transfer of value.” She cited incentivizing people with payments to provide their data for specific uses as an alternative, with platforms like Facebook serving as the marketplace. Panelist Jeffrey Wernick, a private investor who has worked with companies like Uber and Bitcoin, thinks that collective bargaining could make strong cases. To draw a formidably-sized group, he explained that digitized smart contracts, built on blockchain, could aggregate “the right to represent” people. “It’s almost like a class action lawsuit. … That way you extract a lot more value from it,” he said. “We just have to figure out how to organize ourselves. The blockchain is the ideal way to do it.” “Given the fact that property rights are not defined [with data], the market cannot find a solution if there is no ownership claim,” he added. “Once we establish the concept that it is our property, organizations will figure out” how to make value propositions, which will “drive us to get the most value out of what we produce.” However, with the present way many internet companies generate revenue, such a change might be difficult to enact. Kaiser said she started a campaign for Facebook to acknowledge personal data as property by April 30. In talking with Facebook leaders about the idea, however, she said some were more open-minded than others about the idea. She noted she was “taken aback and disappointed” at Facebook chief operating officer Cheryl Sandberg’s statements about people having to provide data if they want Facebook for free. “To me that sounds like a threat. To use your property or pay? I don’t know about that,” she added.Micron Technology, Inc.(NASDAQ:MU) beat earnings expectations last month and closed at $61.07 on March 21, just off 52-week high of $63.42.

Since then, Micron stock has retreated, and the stock now sits at $48.46 per share. Micron stock has more than doubled since December 2016.

MU is one of the world’s top producers of memory chips. Micron accounted for 21% of global DRAM sales in the third quarter of 2017, putting it behind Samsung and SK Hynix. The three held a combined market share of over 95%.Micron also has a strong position in flash memory, commanding 11.5% of that market in the fourth quarter.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Micron was recently downgraded by UBS analyst Timothy Arcuri, who cited cyclical concerns with the stock. However, most of Wall Street remains bullish on Micron stock.

Micron stock has done well since I last wrote about it. But is Micron stock still a buy?

Micron Stock Pros

Limited Trade War Risk: Last week, Eurasia Group president Ian Bremmer tweeted the names of U.S. companies which depend on China.

US companies with the highest share of sales in China

1 Skyworks 82.7%

2 Qualcomm 65.4%

3 Qorvo 62%

4 Broadcom 53.7%

5 Micron Technology 51.1%









FactSet

— ian bremmer (@ianbremmer) April 3, 2018





Given the talk of a trade war between the United States and China, this looks concerning.

However, I don’t see China as a big threat to Micron-at least right now.

China is working to develop a domestic semiconductor industry, but right now it still depends heavily on imported memory chips.

And as I mentioned earlier, around 95% of global DRAM chip sales come from Micron and two other companies, both of which are South Korean.

Could China threaten to buy more from Micron’s South Korean competitors? Maybe. However, China is also angry with South Korea.

Micron could also benefit if China decides to tone down tensions with the United States. Last month, Trump asked China to buy more chips from American manufacturers such as Micron, and the Chinese government offered to do so.

High DRAM Prices: MU has enjoyed a very favorable market environment over the past few years. Memory chip prices rose 26 to 31 percent in 2016.

According to DRAMeXchange, which tracks the prices of memory chips, DRAM prices rose 76% in 2017.

The result is high profit margins for memory chip producers. According to Finviz, Micron’s net margin stands at 38.7%.

Stock Has Fallen: Concerns with Micron stock may already be priced in, since the stock has lost ground over the past month and remains 24% off its 52-week highs.

Micron Stock Cons

Capacity Buildup: Chip prices may be high right now, but eventually supply will catch up with demand.

Last year, memory chip producers ramped up capital spending. Samsung doubled its capex from $11.3 billion to $26 billion. IC Insights president Bill McClean commented:

“In my 37 years of tracking the semiconductor industry, I have never seen such an aggressive ramp of semiconductor capital expenditures. The sheer magnitude of Samsung’s spending this year is unprecedented in the history of the semiconductor industry!”

According to SEMI, global spending on semiconductor equipment rose 37% to $56.6 billion in 2017.

This means more capacity and lower prices are on the horizon.

Cyclical Stock: As I mentioned in 2016, Micron is a cyclical stock. It depends on memory chip prices, which can fluctuate wildly. Buying a cyclical stock like Micron at the wrong time can hurt your portfolio.

Look at how Micron stock fared in 2015, when DRAM prices fell:

Micron’s stock price slid, falling from the mid-30s in December 2014 to less than $10 a share in the spring of 2016.

According to McKinsey on Semiconductors, chipmakers like Micron tend to run their plants at full capacity, even when prices fall, since their fixed costs are very high. The machinery will age even if it isn’t being used as much.FILE PHOTO: Takeda Pharmaceutical's signboard is seen on its headquarters building in Tokyo, Japan January 30, 2018. REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon/File Photo

By Greg Roumeliotis, Ben Martin and Ben Hirschler

NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - Rare disease drug maker Shire Plc <SHP.L> said on Thursday it had rejected a $63 billion cash-and-stock acquisition offer by Japan's Takeda Pharmaceutical Co Ltd <4502.T>, while Allergan Plc <AGN.N> reversed course on pursuing a rival bid.

The high-stakes drama underscores the surge in dealmaking this year in the pharmaceutical sector, as large players look for promising assets to improve their pipelines. An acquisition of Shire by Takeda would be by far the biggest acquisition of a drug company year-to-date.

Botox-maker Allergan confirmed on Thursday it was considering an offer for Shire after Reuters reported on its interest, sending its shares down 7 percent.

Later on Thursday, Allergan Chief Executive Brent Saunders decided to drop his pursuit of London-listed Shire after receiving pushback from some of his shareholders, who were concerned about the company overstretching its resources, according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not be identified discussing confidential talks. Allergan then issued a second announcement stating it did not intend to make an offer for Shire.

Dublin-based Allergan, which has a market capitalization of $52 billion, had $30 billion in debt as of the end of December, the legacy of a string of acquisitions. This has weighed on Allergan's ability to carry out big acquisitions.

Allergan's exploration of a bid for Shire was part of its wider strategic review, Allergan said in a statement. This review is currently unlikely to lead either to a major acquisition or a breakup of the company, one of the sources said.

Reuters also first reported on Thursday that Takeda had made a cash-and-stock offer of 46.50 pounds ($66.20) a share for Shire. This prompted both companies to confirm the move and announce that Shire had rejected it, although their negotiations are continuing.

Buying Shire would be the largest ever overseas acquisition by a Japanese company and propel Takeda, led by Frenchman Christophe Weber, into the top ranks of global drugmakers.

It would be Weber's boldest move by far, significantly boosting Takeda's position in rare diseases, including a blockbuster hemophilia franchise, gastrointestinal disorders and neuroscience, where Shire is a leader in drugs to treat hyperactivity.

But it would be a big financial stretch since Shire, with a market value of more than 34 billion pounds ($48.3 billion), is worth a lot more than Japan's biggest drugmaker, which has a market capitalization of 4.1 trillion yen ($31 billion).

An acquisition of Shire would have given Allergan heft in the rare diseases space at a time when Saunders is seeking to cement its status as a purveyor of innovative drugs. Saunders' plans to sell Allergan to Pfizer for $160 billion were scuppered two years ago after the U.S. Treasury changed the rules on corporate tax inversions.

Saunders "was a huge deal guy and everyone was kind of waiting for the next big deal," said Kevin Kedra, an analyst with Gabelli & Co, which holds shares of both Allergan and Shire.

If there was to be a big share component to a deal it would have to come before a vote of shareholders, he noted. "Shareholders seem to be voting this morning," Kedra said.

Takeda said it would remain disciplined in its approach and intended to maintain its dividend policy and investment-grade credit rating, adding that: "Discussions between the parties regarding a potential offer are ongoing."





MORE CASH WANTED

Shire confirmed it had received three conditional proposals from Takeda, but said they significantly undervalued the company's growth prospects and drugs in development.

Takeda's latest 46.50 pounds offer was made on April 12 and comprised 17.75 pounds in cash, which would be paid in U.S. dollars, and 28.75 pounds worth of new Takeda shares. Shire said that valued it at approximately 44 billion pounds ($62.6 billion), based on total issued and to be issued share capital.

The two earlier cash-and-share offers were worth 44 and 45.50 pounds per share, respectively.

Under UK takeover rules, Takeda has until April 25 to make a firm offer or walk away, after it said last month it was considering a bid.

Based on Takeda's market capitalization, Shire shareholders would end up owning approximately 51 percent of the enlarged group, Shire noted.

Story ContinuesIn what would make for a blockbuster acquisition, Japanese pharmaceutical giant Takeda is continuing its hunt for rare disease drug maker Shire. But Shire isn’t making things easy: The firm has already rebuffed Takeda’s advances on three separate occasions, including a recent cash-and-stock offer that would value the deal at $62.5 billion. And Reuters reports that another huge industry player, Botox maker Allergan, may try to scoop up Shire from under Takeda’s nose (see our update below). Shire stock shpg was up 4% in early Thursday trading while Allergan agn shares fell 5%.

Takeda confirmed the M&A rumors amid mounting speculation, stating Thursday that the company was “notified that the Board of Shire had rejected” its most recent buyout proposal. “Discussions between the parties regarding a potential offer are ongoing,” the company said. Allergan released a statement shortly thereafter confirming that “it is in the early stages of considering a possible offer for Shire” but has not yet made an official offer. (UPDATE: Allergan put out a second statement Thursday indicating that it may not be interested in buying Shire after all: “In order to comply with the requirements of the UK Takeover Code, Allergan announced that it does not intend to make an offer for Shire.”)

Subscribe to Brainstorm Health Daily, our newsletter about the most exciting health innovations.

Snatching up Shire, whose portfolio includes the best-selling ADHD drug Vyvanse, would be a transformative deal for either Takeda or Allergan. Takeda, Japan’s largest drug maker, has been on the hunt to expand its global footprint, particularly through acquisitions and partnerships. Allergan CEO Brent Saunders is notorious as a serial acquirer and bolt-on biotech M&A evangelist. But a deal to buy Shire would be a far bigger move for the company, which itself was slated to be bought by Pfizer in a mega-deal that was ultimately scuttled in 2016.

Shire raked in $15.2 billion in 2017 revenues. An acquisition of the company would be the biggest pharmaceutical deal of the year, which might hearten investors who lamented the laggard pace of M&A in the industry last year.

This post has been updated to reflect Allergan’s new statement indicating it may not pursue Shire after all.Allergan Plc investors have been waiting for the drugmaker to make a bold move after the shares took a beating over the past year, but a potential bid for Shire Plc may not be the deal they wanted.

Chief Executive Officer Brent Saunders said on a call with investors in March that Allergan was “going to consider every option” to create value. But given the recent history of failed mega-mergers -- including Allergan and Pfizer Inc. in 2016 -- Cowen & Co. analyst Ken Cacciatore said a potential tie-up with Shire “evokes painful memories.”

Shares of Allergan fell as much as 8.5 percent, their biggest drop since that Pfizer blowup two years ago, as an offer for Shire would potentially set up a bidding war with Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. The stock pared losses after CNBC reported that a bid wasn’t coming, according to people familiar.

More from Bloomberg.com: Russian Missiles Alarm Israel, Stoking Risk of Next Syria Crisis

While buying Shire makes sense strategically, splitting up Allergan’s business or even just taking a wait-and-see approach are options that would give management more control of the process, Cacciatore wrote in a note to clients. Even so, William Blair’s Tim Lugo cautions that “Shire’s availability may be too attractive for management at Allergan to pass up.”

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Allergan Weighing Shire Bid Has Investors Worried About Deja Vu on bloomberg.comThe NFL has at long last revealed the 2018 regular-season schedule, and much of Thursday night – and likely into Friday – on the league’s network and its partners will be spent dissecting each team’s schedule, where the bye week falls, and how many prime-time games each club will play.

We’re no different.

Players always say that there’s something special about those prime-time matchups: they’re the only game happening, so anyone who wants to watch an NFL game is watching. There’s a pretty good slate of night games this season, and here’s our top 10 picks for the ones worth staying up late for (yes, we know it’s April, so this list might look a lot different in, say, September):

It’s his team now: the Bears have made it clear that the franchise is in Mitchell Trubisky’s hands. (AP)

10. Seattle Seahawks at Chicago Bears, Week 2 (Monday night): The Bears cut Mike Glennon this offseason, telling the world that the franchise is in Mitchell Trubisky’s hands. And the rest of the country won’t have to wait long to see how Trubisky handles things, as Chicago welcomes the new-look Seahawks to Soldier Field.

9. New England Patriots at Detroit Lions, Week 3 (Sunday night): The other coaches who have left Bill Belichick’s side to become head coaches elsewhere by and large haven’t fared that well. Bill O’Brien is hanging on in Houston, but Josh McDaniels was a disaster in Denver, and Charlie Weis struggled in multiple other places. It’s Matt Patricia’s turn to see if he can start to turn the tide, welcoming his longtime mentor to Ford Field for an early-season game.

8. San Francisco 49ers at Green Bay Packers, Week 6 (Monday night): One of the NFL’s rising stars, 49ers quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo, returns to primetime. Garoppolo led the Patriots into Arizona for a Sunday night game to open the 2016 season, and held up well. Now he’s headed to one of the game’s hallowed grounds, against one of its best quarterbacks.

Story Continues

7. Dallas Cowboys at Houston Texans, Week 5 (Sunday night): Just as many of us were starting to fall in love with Deshaun Watson as the Texans’ quarterback – it was a loss, but his performance in Seattle was breathtaking – he suffered a torn ACL in practice, leaving us to wonder how his rookie season may have ended. But barring any setbacks Watson will be back, as will J.J. Watt, as the Texans host their in-state rivals.

6. Los Angeles Rams at Oakland Raiders, Week 1 (Monday night): Twenty years ago, when he was first hired as the Raiders’ head coach, Jon Gruden was just 34 years old. Now, Gruden is returning to the sidelines for the first time in a decade, again in silver and black, and on the opposite sideline will be the new hot young NFL head coach: the Rams’ Sean McVay.

5. Minnesota Vikings at Los Angeles Rams, Week 4 (Thursday night): This might be the best Thursday night matchup we’ve seen in years (excluding the kickoff game). The Vikings went 13-3 last season with Case Keenum at quarterback, pushed into the role after a Sam Bradford injury, and won the Kirk Cousins Sweepstakes with a three-year fully-guaranteed contract. The Rams also made the playoffs last season, the first time in 13 years, and have made tons of move to try to insure they return.

Vikings WR Stefon Diggs celebrates his 61-yard game-winning touchdown against the Saints in the playoffs. (AP)

4. New Orleans Saints at Minnesota Vikings, Week 8 (Sunday night): Who can forget the last-second, Keenum-to-Stefon Diggs, 61-yard touchdown play that put the Vikings in the NFC Championship game? The Saints likely haven’t, and while the stakes aren’t the same, will be looking to get a measure of revenge.

3. Pittsburgh Steelers at Jacksonville Jaguars, Week 11 (Sunday night): Speaking of epic playoff games…87 combined points, 923 combined yards of offense, and the day we learned that Blake Bortles shouldn’t be a punchline anymore. The Jags have swag, and will want to show Pittsburgh that their Divisional round win wasn’t a fluke.

2. Philadelphia Eagles at Los Angeles Rams, Week 15 (Sunday night): Yes, it’s a long way away. But right now, it’s easy to believe this game will be a late-season preview of the NFC Championship game.

1. Atlanta Falcons at Philadelphia Eagles, Week 1 (Thursday night): What other pick is there other than the now-traditional kickoff game for our top spot? For one thing, it marks the return of the NFL, the Eagles will be celebrating their Super Bowl LII win (again), and Carson Wentz will likely be back under center. Oh, and the Eagles knocked the Falcons out of the postseason last year.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Former NFL QB lost 100 pounds in a year

• A-Rod’s nephew kidnapped after botched Lamborghini sale

• Report: Peyton Manning didn’t want to call Eli’s games

• NFL schedule released: Eagles-Falcons kick things off

The Heat couldn’t stop the returning Joel Embiid and the 76ers in the fourth quarter of Game 3. (Getty)

After a marquee win over LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers a few weeks back, reporters asked several members of the Philadelphia 76ers what they thought their streaking team might become whenever they got Joel Embiid back on the court after he recovered from surgery to repair a broken orbital bone around his left eye. To a man, they offered the same word: “scary.”

They were right.

Embiid shook off rust, evident discomfort with the fit of his new mask and multiple Miami Heat defenders to get it going late. He scored seven of his team-high 23 points in a fourth quarter that the 76ers dominated to earn an impressive 128-108 win in South Florida that gave Philadelphia a 2-1 lead in the best-of-seven set, took back home-court advantage in the first-round series right after Miami had seized it, and sent a message to the rest of the playoff field: a healthy and once-again-whole Sixers team is one hell of a force to be reckoned with.

“[The mask] was annoying,” Embiid told reporters after the game. “But that was the only way I could play in this game, if I wore the mask and protected my face with goggles. I had to work through it and I did.”

Ben Simmons also made his presence felt late, scoring eight of his 19 points and grabbing five of his 12 rebounds in the fourth quarter that decided the game. The Rookie of the Year contender also added seven assists and four steals with only three turnovers in 40 minutes on the ball, teaming with Embiid, who added seven boards, four assists, three blocks and a steal of his own, to give Brett Brown’s club a one-two punch that the hard-charging Heat simply couldn’t handle with the game in the balance.

Despite Embiid’s public agitation for a return to the lineup following Miami’s win in Game 2 to strip home-court advantage away from the East’s No. 3 seed, the Sixers initially listed their All-Star center as doubtful for Thursday’s Game 3. Philly seemed intent on erring on the side of caution when it came to the long-term health and well-being of a rising star in whom they invested a multi-year maximum-salaried contract before the start of the season.

Story Continues

The picture started to get a bit rosier in the hours before tipoff, though, as rumblings started that Embiid had been upgraded to probable and had been had been outfitted for a new mask that would offer as much protection as possible for his just-healed mug:

The mask Embiid is wearing tonight has protective eyewear built into it! It’s carbon AND poly carbonate. Hence, it’s stronger than a normal mask. Let’s just say this has been a super involved hi-tech project between the Sixers, Embiid’s camp and the independent league doctors. — Ramona Shelburne (@ramonashelburne) April 19, 2018





The reasons this was such a “process.” It’s the second time Embiid has broken this area of his face. First time was at Kansas. All the doctors involved felt there was significant risk of reinjury. So there’s been a lot of work done in developing this new stronger mask. — Ramona Shelburne (@ramonashelburne) April 19, 2018





After going through warmups, all parties involved felt comfortable enough to proceed, and Embiid was slotted into the starting lineup for his first NBA action since March 28.

Both teams came out of the gates hot, working inside-out to find open shooters and firing away with confidence to the tune of 11 combined 3-point makes in 20 tries. And when things bogged down, there was Embiid, who missed his first five shots, but was still able to give Philly what it had been missing: a steady stream of free throws, going to the line six times in the opening frame for five points.

As the game wore on, so too did the physicality. During one mid-second-quarter play, Heat big man Kelly Olynyk knocked Embiid’s mask off while reaching for a loose ball. The protective lens popped loose, meaning Embiid would need to check out to get it repaired … and, while it was on the deck, Miami’s Justise Winslow decided to take a crack at cracking JoJo’s Rec Specs:

Fortunately, the Sixers planned ahead.

Embiid on his mask: "As far as the mask, Justise stepped on it and tried to break with his hands. But little did he know we have about 50 of them. It's going to take much more than that to get me out of these series. I'm going to be a nightmare for them too." — Manny Navarro (@Manny_Navarro) April 20, 2018





That was a good thing, because Embiid’s mask would get jarred loose again on a fourth-quarter drive:

Joel Embiid still getting adjusted to the mask pic.twitter.com/sq8cNHfE4m — Def Pen Hoops (@DefPenHoops) April 20, 2018





Embiid wasn’t the only one banging bodies on Thursday. For three quarters, the game had been played inside a phone booth, with two tough and physical teams scrapping and clawing for every inch of breathing room and separation. That resulted in some bad blood and chippy play — 56 personal fouls, 72 free throws and six technical fouls. Game 2 hero Dwyane Wade and Philly reserve Justin Anderson got slapped with double technicals after they got tangled up in the second …

… while series-long adversaries Simmons and James Johnson got matching techs shortly thereafter for persistent woofing …

Ben Simmons and James Johnson obviously talking about Miami restaurants pic.twitter.com/fRt2vwOUrb — Def Pen Hoops (@DefPenHoops) April 20, 2018





… and Goran Dragic and Marco Belinelli got T’d up for fourth-quarter beefing:

Goran Dragic just got a T for Marco Belinelli talking to him. — Tim Reynolds (@ByTimReynolds) April 20, 2018





Goran Dragic gets the layup to fall and lets out a big yell for Belinelli #HeatCulture pic.twitter.com/7VCx5PTzvE — Def Pen Hoops (@DefPenHoops) April 20, 2018





All that jostling and all that trash talk made for an incredibly intense, competitive and well-played game, with Dragic and Winslow lighting it up for Miami, while Belinelli and DarioSaric responded with long-range bombs for the Sixers.

And then, in the fourth, Philly just absolutely hit the gas, and left Miami in the dust.

The Sixers clamped down on the Heat in the fourth quarter, limiting Erik Spoelstra’s club to 14 points on 5-for-19 shooting while unleashing offensive hell in the form of 32 points on 19 shots, including big 3-pointers from shooters Saric, Robert Covington, Ersan Ilyasova … and the 7-foot-2 Embiid, who stroked a left-wing triple off a Saric feed just after banking in a midrange jumper to turn a seven-point edge into a double-digit lead that the Sixers wouldn’t relinquish over the final 4 1/2 minutes, allowing the visitors to cruise to an impressive road win in Embiid’s postseason debut.

While the young core of Embiid, Simmons and Saric (21 points on 7-for-17 shooting, seven rebounds, four assists in 30 minutes) carried a Sixers offense that scorched the nets against a very good Miami defense for the second time in three games, the Heat just ran out of point-producing answers late.

Dragic was brilliant, roasting 6-foot-9 All-Defensive candidate Covington off the dribble and slicing to the rim for 23 points through three quarters, but went scoreless in the final frame. Ditto for Winslow, who responded to Philadelphia’s tactical decision to all but ignore him as a perimeter threat by drilling four 3-pointers and scoring 19 points in the first half, but who couldn’t get free in the third or fourth, thanks in part to the looming presence of the Sixers’ just-returned All-Defensive Team-caliber big man.

Miami shot a season worst 35% on shots at the rim tonight. They were 1/7 at the rim when Embiid was on the floor, and 5/10 when he was off. — Darryl Blackport (@bballport) April 20, 2018





“It’s clear that the first game and the third game were played on their terms,” Spoelstra told reporters after the game.

There was just too much length, too much activity, too much disruption in every Sixers lineup that saw the floor, all starting with the bookend duo of Embiid and Simmons, the Process-produced twosome that has already raised Philadelphia to greater heights than the franchise has seen in 15 years, and whose stratospheric ceilings as players and cornerstones give Sixers fans reason to believe — or trust, if you prefer — that we ain’t seen nothing yet. And given what we have already seen, and what they put on display in Miami on Thursday night … well, if your favorite team hails from anywhere but Philly, “scary” seems like as good a word as any.

More NBA coverage:

– – – – – – –

Dan Devine is a writer and editor for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at devine@oath.com or follow him on Twitter!“Heading Home,” is a film about Israel’s run deep into the 2017 World Baseball Classic. (AP)

There’s a pervasive optimism baked into “Heading Home,” a film about Israel’s run deep into the 2017 World Baseball Classic, that subverts an entire genre. This is the anti-Woody Allen movie, about Jews who are not self-loathing but celebratory, not full of angst but teeming with mirth, not lamenting what is but seeking what can be. These aren’t guys making the leaflet of Famous Jewish Sports Legends anytime soon. They’re just looking for something beyond what baseball gave to them.

The search for what being Jewish means in an increasingly agnostic society resonates for the stars of the documentary, all in their 20s and 30s, none particularly religious. A career in baseball can be like a black hole, swallowing everything within its path, so all-consuming that profession becomes identity. The movie is a celebration of baseball, yes, but one told through the stories of Ike Davis, Sam Fuld, Josh Zeid, Cody Decker, players who love the game even if it didn’t always return the love in kind.

Their goal – their duty, really – is to proselytize the game in a country where basketball and soccer rule and baseball exists almost only in the far reaches of the diaspora. The team’s trip to Israel follows plenty of tropes: swimming in the Dead Sea, placing messages in the Western Wall, hiking Masada. What differentiates their journey and imbues it with meaning is their connection to Israel isn’t simply ancestral; two months later, the players will wear Israel across their chests, doff their caps during the national anthem and replace them with yarmulkes.

With the exception of one player, the team was made up entirely of American Jews – a point that a Cuban journalist pointed out with a lick’s worth of salt after Israel beat Cuba for its fourth consecutive win to start the tournament. Israel took advantage of the tournament’s lax qualification standards to put together its squad. The depth to which the team’s brain trust went to figure out who was Jewish enough to play saturates the early parts of the film with levity and humor.

Story Continues

“I mean, our shortstop, we got him off of Facebook because his mom looked Jewish,” said Jerry Weinstein, a longtime minor league manager who did the same for Israel.

Reconciling baseball and Judaism’s respectful places within the players’ lives lends the film an unspoken but obvious tension. There’s a desire to marry the two that grows upon their arrival in Israel. When Jonathan Mayo, the MLB.com prospect guru and an architect of the trip, speaks of baseball not being terribly popular in Israel, Zeid says: “Yet.”

Even if being Jewish is a secondary, maybe tertiary characteristic for most of the team, the desire to bring baseball to Israel, in ways big and small, drives them. In Tel Aviv, they come upon a graffiti park, in which they help contribute to a street mural of Sandy Koufax, as if to say the patron saint of Jewish baseball is there with them. For that they also have the Mensch on the Bench, the titular stuffed mascot who accompanies the team everywhere.

He became the star of the team when it started the WBC by beating Korea at home, followed with two more victories to sweep its pod and move onto the quarterfinal round, and then downed Cuba. It was the closest thing baseball could muster to a March Madness Cinderella, and the architect was a bunch of Jewish (or at least related-to-a-Jew-ish) boys. Even if the whole of their Judaism was filtered through the prism of baseball games, it was something tangible, something that served to only strengthen feelings they may not have known they had.

For so many their age, religion is more about culture than it is piety. In the minor leagues, Decker said, fans in the stands slurred him and Nate Freiman, his teammate then and on the WBC team. This was their experience being Jewish in baseball. The WBC offered instead not just the tourist trappings but a rap song (“Jews With Bats!!” by Kosha Dillz) and a dream that maybe baseball has a future in Israel.

At Beit Shemesh, a city about 20 miles west of Jerusalem, a few of the players wield shovels at the future site of a complex. Already there’s a robust little league there. When an official drops a ball into a hole dug by the shovels, he said: “We are planting a small ball from which a big and beautiful field will grow.”

It’s not that easy to spread baseball, of course, or the sport long ago would’ve been a mainstay outside of North America, Japan, Korea and Latin America. And it’s where perhaps the film’s only pessimistic moment – and even that’s a stretch because it’s more realistic – reveals itself.

“The Mensch on the Bench,” the titular stuffed mascot who accompanied the team everywhere during the 2017 World Baseball Classic. (AP)

“I think it would be exceedingly nice if us playing baseball and doing well in this tournament impacted how people see Jews in the world,” Decker said. “Will it change things? Probably not, but one can hope.”

Earlier this week in Israel was Yom Hazikaron, its version of Memorial Day. There was no baseball played. Twice during the day, a siren went off and the country froze. It was solemn, a solemnity exacerbated by the constant threat of war and its role in the continued conflict with Palestine. In the film, Zeid’s conversation with a Palestinian T-shirt salesman who may know more about baseball history than Zeid himself will leave a lump in your throat.

Rather than get entangled in the politics, “Heading Home” spends the last half of the movie chronicling the magical run of Israel through Korea and Japan, where it lost to the home team in an elimination game. The film, which hits theaters this summer and will be shown in New York, Los Angeles, Washington, Boston and a half-dozen other cities before then, ends with three young Israeli boys playing catch.

It’s the perfect coda for a story that itself didn’t struggle, even if those in it fought the cognitive dissonance of an upbringing without religion meeting the greatest professional challenge of their lives that exists only because of it.

“We didn’t really know what we were getting into,” one member of Team Israel said, though he and the others would learn soon enough: something more special and meaningful than they ever would’ve conceived.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Former NFL QB lost 100 pounds in a year

• A-Rod’s nephew kidnapped after botched Lamborghini sale

• Report: Peyton Manning didn’t want to call Eli’s games

• NFL schedule released: Eagles-Falcons kick things off

In her on-court interview with LeBron James following the Cavaliers’ Game 2 win over the Pacers last night, TNT sideline reporter Allie LaForce asked him about the death of Gregg Popovich’s wife.

LeBron appeared emotional as he gathered his thoughts.

That prompted some to criticize LaForce for ambushing LeBron on a sensitive subject on live TV. But that’s not what happened.

Uninterrupted:

.@KingJames sends his thoughts and prayers to the family of Gregg Popovich, sets record straight on reporter’s question. pic.twitter.com/VCsFuEtFVU — UNINTERRUPTED (@uninterrupted) April 19, 2018

LeBron:

I’m not on social media right now, but I was made aware through some friends through texts that a question was asked to me postgame, and a lot of people feel I was blindsided. That is absolutely false. Allie LaForce told me that she was going to ask the question and if it was OK. And once I started talking about it, once we were on air, actually my emotions kind of took over. And that was just my emotions coming straight from my heart about the late Erin Popovich. It’s unfortunate. It’s a tragic loss. My thoughts, my prayers, once again goes out to the Popovich family, to Gregg, to the Spurs family, to the whole Spurs fan base. And also guys, please get off Allie LaForce’ back, because she followed the proper protocol and she warned me. So, get off her back, man. She’s very professional, and she does a great job at her work. Like I said, thoughts and prayers to the heavens above. We all know the man above never makes mistakes, even when we question it. But it’s a sad, tragic time right now for the NBA family, and we’re all praying and hoping for the best.

Story Continues

It would have been surprising if LaForce hadn’t done that. Somewhere between nearly nobody and absolutely nobody in her position is trying to embarrass players.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Wife of Spurs coach Gregg Popovich dies

• Dan Wetzel: USA's Fierce Five will forever have a dark cloud

• Reds waste no time, fire manager after 18 games

• MLB Power Rankings: Boston’s the team to beatThe future of Kawhi Leonard remains shrouded in doubt, but suggestions he is on his way out of San Antonio appear to be premature.

The relationship between the 2014 NBA Finals MVP and the Spurs has been frosty since he reportedly told the team he was not comfortable playing while rehabbing from the quadriceps tendinopathy that forced him to miss the first 27 games of the season.

GettyImages-683079814

Thearon W. Henderson/Getty Images

Trending: Comey Memos: Trump Had 'Serious Reservations' About Mike Flynn

Leonard made his season debut on December 12 against the Dallas Mavericks, but after playing nine of the following 17 games, on January 13 the Spurs opted to sideline him indefinitely. He has not played since, continuing to work with his fitness team in New York instead.

Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich admitted he did not know how long Leonard would be out for and the impasse over the 26-year-old’s future only increased amid reports that this summer San Antonio might not offer him the five-year extension worth $219 million he wants.

However, while a number of teams were rumored to be already working on a trade package for Leonard, the Spurs might decide to keep Leonard after all.

Writing in his weekly newsletter for the New York Times, Marc Stein said sources close to the team had dismissed the possibility of trading the small forward.

Don't miss: Rudy Giuliani Finally Gets Trump Job After Defending President for 2 Years

One “well-placed insider” was quoted as saying that the “Spurs continue to give off signals behind the scenes that they won’t trade Leonard.”

Conversely, Leonard’s situation could be a repeat of the scenario Spurs faced last summer with LaMarcus Aldridge. The power forward had demanded a trade away from Texas, but Popovich made clear Aldridge would only be allowed to leave if San Antonio received a star player in exchange.

Story Continues

“I was very candid with him,” Popovich said, as reported by NBC.

“I told him, ‘You get me a talent like Kevin Durant and I’ll drive you to the airport. I’ll pack your bags, I’ll drive you there, I’ll get you on the plane and I’ll get you seated.’”

Most popular: What to Expect From Cuba’s New President | Opinion

As a result Aldridge remained in San Antonio. Popovich heaped praise on his mental resilience after he scored 34 points as the Spurs fell 2-0 down in their first-round series against the Golden State Warriors on Monday night.

“LaMarcus has been a monster all year long,” Popovich told reporters in what many considered a not-so-veiled shot at Leonard. “He’s led our team on both ends of the floor. He doesn’t complain about a darn thing out on the court. He plays through everything. I can’t imagine being more proud of a player as far as playing through adversity and being there for his teammates night after night after night. He’s been fantastic.”





However, it remains to be seen whether Leonard and Popovich would agree to a meeting like the one the latter had with Aldridge last summer, or if the relationship between the two has broken beyond repair.

In recent years, Jimmy Butler and DeMarcus Cousins left the Chicago Bulls and the Sacramento Kings after not being offered a supermax contract, while James Harden and John Wall put pen to paper to remain in Houston and Washington respectively.

Should Leonard fall in the former camp, then a trade will become a very plausible scenario and there will be no shortage of suitors for a player who averaged 25.5 points, 5.8 rebounds, 3.5 assists and 1.8 steals per game last season .

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekThe Cleveland Cavaliers levelled the series against the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday night, but Tristan Thompson did not see a minute of the action.

The 27-year-old remained on the bench throughout the game, as LeBron James’ 46 points guided the Cavs to a much-needed 100-97 win, with the series now heading to Indiana at 1-1.

GettyImages-948309318

Jason Miller/Getty Images

Trending: ‘Fortnite’ Taco Shop Locations & Moisty Mire Treasure Map Challenge Guide

Three days earlier, things had not gone much better for Thompson, who was on the court was barely two minutes as the Cleveland lost Game One. Cavs head coach Tyronn Lue’s decision to marginalize Thompson in the first two games of the series was surprising given the fourth overall pick of the 2011 draft averaged 20.2 minutes per game this season—which, however, represented the shortest playing time he’s averaged since arriving in the NBA.

Thompson’s spell on the sidelines comes after a turbulent couple of days for the former Texas student, who has been accused of being unfaithful to Khloé Kardashian, his girlfriend and mother of his newborn daughter, True.

Kardashian announced the arrival of the baby on Monday, just days after the Cavs power forward had been photographed with a brunette woman in a bar in New York City, while Kardashian was in Cleveland, awaiting the birth of their daughter.

Don't miss: Fake Starbucks Offers of Free Coffee for Black Customers Are Spreading In the Wake of Racism Scandal

A day after the incident, on April 11, Thompson was booed during the Cavs’ last regular season game—on home court against the New York Knicks—as some fans displayed signs supporting his girlfriend.

Story Continues

Rumours of a rift between the couple were fuelled by speculations that Kardashian and Thompson do not live in his house in Cleveland. According to sources quoted by People, the duo live separately and while Thompson regularly visits his daughter, the couple have minimal interaction and the reality TV star is “desperate to return to Los Angeles” to be with her family.

The Cavs take on the Pacers in Indianapolis in Game Three on their first-round series and it remains to be seen whether Thompson will feature.

The power forward played all 18 playoffs games last year, as the Cavs reached a third consecutive NBA Final but failed to defend the title and lost in six games to the Golden State Warriors.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekThere are some curiosities at the top of the 2018 NFL Draft, with the Giants apparently entrenched in their No. 2 position, despite not wanting to take a quarterback. Dave Gettleman is not a proponent of trading down, or at least never did it while with the Panthers. And he certainly doesn't want to trade down if it means missing out on a blue-chip player. Meanwhile, the Bills are desperate to trade up to draft a quarterback, and would probably prefer to do so in a manner that moves them ahead of the Jets at No. 3. Certainly getting to or ahead of the Browns' No. 4 pick is a must -- Cleveland could easily auction that pick off when they are on the clock. The Broncos also linger as a wild cardANAHEIM, Calif. - Giancarlo Stanton strikes out in his sleep while Mookie Betts has been the best hitter in baseball. On Wednesday, of all days, there's absolutely no one in Red Sox camp who's going to look back with regret on the little bit of history revealed by a former Marlins executive. (And no regret is going to crop up in the future either, barring something very strange.)

David Samson, former president of the Marlins, told CBS Sports that when Betts was a rising prospect in the minors, the Marlins tried to land him by dangling Hanley Ramirez - and even Stanton himself. The Red Sox looked at Betts as untouchable, and for some of the mistakes that were made under former general manager Ben Cherington's watch, keeping prospects like Betts out of trades may have been his greatest strength.

MORE RED SOX:

The Marlins, surely, aren't the only ones who tried to pry Betts away from the Sox. Teams inquire about great talents all the time. But Betts is a much more well-rounded player. Stanton has struck out in 38.7 percent of plate appearances this season (29 in 75 trips), compared to just 9 percent for Betts (six in 67 trips).

Betts is hitting .389 with a .493 on-base percentage and .796 slugging percentage. Per one measurement that encompasses a hitter's offensive production, weighted runs created plus (wRC+), Betts has been the top hitter across the majors. He has five home runs, three of which came Tuesday against the Angels.

One thing Betts is doing more of in 2018: pulling the ball, as noted by FanGraphs.

NBC SPORTS BOSTON SCHEDULEIf this is how Donovan Mitchell plays when he’s limited by a left foot contusion, then Quin Snyder should really think about taking a hammer to his star rookie’s pinky toe before every game from here on out. Y’know, just for good luck.

An hour before tipoff of Wednesday’s Game 2, Mitchell was officially questionable to suit up for the Utah Jazz, his status for the evening still publicly uncertain. Two hours after tipoff, he was very publicly dominating the Oklahoma City Thunder, slinking around defenders and slicing his way to the rim with the confidence and decisiveness of a guy with a hell of a lot more than two playoff games under his belt.

Mitchell scored 13 of his game-high 28 points in the fourth quarter on Wednesday, leading the Jazz back from a 10-point deficit and all the way to a 102-95 win that evened Utah’s best-of-seven first-round series with the Thunder at one game apiece. With the victory, the Jazz snatched home-court advantage away from fourth-seeded Oklahoma City before the scene shifts to Salt Lake City for Game 3 on Saturday; if they can protect home court, Snyder’s club can have the chance to finish the Thunder off in a return trip to OKC next week.

Mitchell struggled somewhat offensively in the first half, missing six of his first 10 shots and seeming to lack the level of burst off the bounce that has helped make the 21-year-old Louisville product one of the top scorers and playmakers in the 2017 rookie class. Even so, though, the Jazz entered intermission with a seven-point lead, thanks largely to a marked improvement in shot-making effectiveness from Mitchell’s backcourt partner Ricky Rubio, a bulldozing half around the basket by power forward Derrick Favors, and stout defensive work that held OKC to just 39 percent shooting through two quarters.

The tide turned midway through the third, as the Thunder finally clicked into gear on both ends, forcing turnovers that kickstarted their fast-break game and created open shots that their stars started drilling:

Story Continues

The Thunder ripped off a 19-0 run in just over five minutes of game time, turning a nine-point deficit into a 77-67 lead with a minute remaining in the third. The Jazz looked shell-shocked by Oklahoma City starting to get consistent shot-making from Game 1 hero Paul George, Russell Westbrook and Carmelo Anthony, who combined for 15 of the Thunder’s 19 points in the stretch. Moreover, Mitchell continued to seem limited, missing a pair of shots right at the rim and a runner in the lane as OKC built up steam.

And then, just as soon as we all started voicing our concerns over the degree to which Donovan looked diminished, he found himself, and he found another gear:





Donovan Mitchell ends the 3rd quarter with a throwdown (via @clippittv) pic.twitter.com/YyIfVNrenb — Def Pen Hoops (@DefPenHoops) April 19, 2018





Two quicksilver drives to the bucket in the final 24 seconds of the quarter Mitchell got the Jazz back within five heading into the fourth, and proved he could beat Thunder defenders to the rim. His rhythm located, he continued attacking off the bounce, getting himself to the foul line twice in the first two minutes of the quarter; suddenly, the Jazz weren’t the ones who looked rattled.

Then again, maybe “rattled” isn’t the right word for how the OKC defense looked in the midst of Mitchell’s fourth-quarter flamethrowing. In light of his work on a couple of later possessions, perhaps “shaken” is a more appropriate word:

JUST LOOK AT IT pic.twitter.com/TmF27Sb5z0 — Utah Jazz (@utahjazz) April 19, 2018





Donovan Mitchell spins and floats one in!#TakeNote pic.twitter.com/6KFlJMTnic — Def Pen Hoops (@DefPenHoops) April 19, 2018





While Mitchell was getting to the basket and the line seemingly at will, the Thunder’s stars just couldn’t get a blessed thing to drop through the net. Westbrook, George and Anthony combined to go 0-for-14 from the field in the fourth quarter, as OKC’s offense cratered at the worst possible moment:

Trailing by four with a minute still left in regulation, the Thunder had opportunities to seize control of the game late. But Anthony missed a pair of 3-pointers and, after Jazz star Rudy Gobert (13 points, 15 rebounds, three assists, three blocks, two steals) hit a pair of freebies to push the lead to six, George missed two more jumpers to officially end the Thunder threat.

Carmelo Anthony: "I don't know. I think we missed. I think we all missed. I don't really have the answer to what happened or the excuse of why we didn't make shots. We just didn't make shots in that fourth quarter." — Fred Katz (@FredKatz) April 19, 2018





After that great fourth-quarter close, the Jazz will now send the series to Utah deadlocked, thanks to the formula they’ve ridden all year: great defense and an awful lot of No. 45 wreaking havoc on his way to the tin.

“[The left foot] didn’t really hurt too much throughout the game,” Mitchell said during his post-game press conference. “But there was just a point where I stopped being aggressive, and the big thing with Rudy, he let me know that I went 0-for-7 from 3, I’m letting guys off the hook. I’ve got to keep applying pressuring, getting to the rim.”

Mitchell did just that, finishing with 28 points on 10-for-25 shooting to go with six rebounds, two assists and a steal in 43 minutes of work. That production comes on the heels of his 27-point, 10-rebound postseason debut, and those two strong starts put him in some awfully impressive historical company:

Donovan Mitchell becomes the 2nd rookie in NBA history to score 27+ points in his first 2 playoff games. The other: Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. — Ben Dowsett (@Ben_Dowsett) April 19, 2018





Donovan Mitchell has scored a total of 55 points in his first two playoff games, which is the most by a guard in NBA history. The previous record holder is someone you may have heard of pic.twitter.com/Q9wfJhVpCo — ESPN Stats & Info (@ESPNStatsInfo) April 19, 2018





But Mitchell’s fourth-quarter performance doesn’t matter if his veteran teammates don’t knock the Thunder on their heels early, and come through with their own timely plays late. After going 5-for-18 from the floor in Game 1, Rubio got back to running the show first and finding his own shot off of that, and everything clicked into place in a 22-point, nine-assist, seven-rebound masterpiece capped by a pair of big fourth-quarter 3s that kept the Thunder at bay:

Favors — who joined Gordon Hayward as one of the first pieces of Utah’s early-decade rebuild when the Jazz plucked him from the New Jersey Nets in return for then-star Deron Williams, and who can sometimes get lost in the hype surrounding Mitchell and Gobert — notched a decisive victory in his bellwether power forward matchup against Anthony (17 points on 6-for-18 shooting, nine rebounds) and provided dynamite minutes at center in Gobert’s stead by dominating the front of the rim:

Favors pulled down 16 rebounds (including eight on the offensive glass) to go with a career-playoff-high 20 points, three assists and a steal. He extended possessions after Utah misses and kept OKC from getting second bites at the apple, and he finished everything he could get his hands on around the rim in an impressive display of power that — for the time being, at least — shifted the balance of power in a series in which Utah will now have three chances at home to get the three wins they need to advance to Round 2.

If they get better performances from George (18 points on 21 shots, 10 rebounds), Westbrook (19 points on 19 shots, 13 assists, nine rebounds, four steals), Anthony and center Steven Adams, who fouled out with 2:48 to go, the Thunder are absolutely capable of shifting the balance back come Saturday. To do it, though, they’re going to have to find a way to slow down Mitchell … and, judging by Wednesday night, it’s going to take a lot more than a bruised pinky toe.

More NBA coverage:

– – – – – – –

Dan Devine is a writer and editor for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at devine@oath.com or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

• NFL mock draft: QBs will be hot first-round commodity

• Wrestling world mourns death of Bruno Sammartino

• 76ers list Embiid as doubtful for Game 3

• Aurora shooting survivor sets sights on NFL

McKayla Maroney speaks out about abuse from Larry Nassar in a new Dateline segment. (Photo: NBC News)

Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney said former USA Gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar would manipulate her using food.

In a Dateline segment set to air on NBC Sunday, the athlete admitted to the show’s co-host Savannah Guthrie that she “would’ve starved at the Olympics” if Nassar hadn’t brought her sustenance, revealing just one of many ways he manipulated and groomed his victims, a common practice among sexual abusers.

The 22-year-old said she had been mοlested by Nassar hundreds of times — beginning with her first visit to the Karolyi Ranch, a famous gymnastics camp facility — and told of how he became trusted by the young girls, who were placed under immense pressure. “Your coaches are just always watching you. And wanting to keep you skinny,” she said.

“I think I would’ve starved at the Olympics if I didn’t have him [Nassar] bring me food.” @McKaylaMaroney opens up about the competitive gymnastics culture to @savannahguthrie. More on @datelineNBC Sunday night pic.twitter.com/JlWluizD8g — TODAY (@TODAYshow) April 19, 2018





Nassar became a hero to her when he brought her “a loaf of bread.”

For the athletes who were training nearly eight to nine hours a day, Maroney said there was little food provided for them. It was part of “other things about the culture that are also messed up,” but she says that Nassar clearly used these demands to his advantage.

This sentiment has been echoed by other members of the Fierce Five gymnastics team who have spoken up about the abuse. Maroney’s teammate Jordyn Wieber even spoke in front of a U.S. Senate subcommittee on Wednesday to bring more attention to the corrupt culture that was overlooked by the United States Olympic Committee.

Story Continues

Jordyn Wieber testified before a Senate subcommittee about the abused athletes who should have been protected. (Photo: Getty Images)

“To my teenage self, [Nassar] appeared to be the ‘good guy’ in an environment that was intense and restricting,” Wieber said. “He would try to advise me on how to deal with the stresses of training and my coaches. He always had a sympathetic ear for complaints about our coaches. He would bring us food and coffee at the Olympics when we were hungry. I didn’t know that these were all grooming techniques that he used to manipulate and brainwashing me into trusting him.”

The Olympic Committee, which claims to not have known about the abuse before June 2015, has apologized to the victims and announced reforms to ensure the protection of athletes. The owners of the Karolyi Ranch have not commented until, however, this anticipated investigative Dateline episode.

In January in Michigan, Nassar was sentenced to 40 to 175 years after nearly 200 women came forward to share their stories of abuse over the past two decades.

Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:

• People are calling the judge who sent Larry Nassar to prison a hero

• Aly Raisman ‘still at a loss for words’ over gymnasts’ abuse

• Aly Raisman: Banning leotards from gymnastics to prevent abuse is a form of ‘victim shaming’

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.The Cleveland Cavaliers got on the board in the 2018 postseason on Wednesday night, scoring a 100-97 win over the Indiana Pacers behind the relentlessness of LeBron James. The nature of Cleveland’s victory, though — needing 46 points in 40 minutes from James and still needing to get, in LeBron’s words, “lucky” when Victor Oladipo missed a wide-open 3-pointer in the final minute — left an awful lot of observers feeling sub-sanguine when it comes to the Cavs’ chances of rolling through the East to a fourth straight NBA Finals.

Those observers, evidently, include the bookmakers at betting site Bovada. In the updated NBA playoff odds the site released on Thursday morning, the Cavs are no longer the Eastern Conference team with the best odds to win the 2017-18 NBA championship, or to advance to the 2018 NBA Finals.

For the first time since the 2009-10 postseason, a LeBron James-led team doesn’t top Bovada’s odds of winning the Eastern Conference. (AP)

Before the postseason started last Saturday, Bovada had the Cavs at 13/2 to win the NBA title, in third place behind the Golden State Warriors (7/5) and Houston Rockets (8/5), and ahead of the East’s No. 1 seed, the Toronto Raptors (17/2). The site also pegged the Cavs as a 5/4 favorite to advance out of the East, with Toronto trailing behind at 8/5.

As we near the end of the playoffs’ opening week, though, those odds have shifted. While the Warriors (21/20) and Rockets (8/5) remain the favorites to hoist the Larry O’Brien Championship Trophy in June, the Raptors — winners of their first two playoff games for the first time in franchise history — have moved ahead of Cleveland, if only slightly. Bovada flipped the make-it-out-of-the-East odds, with Toronto now at 5/4 and Cleveland at 8/5. And while the Raptors’ odds to win it all haven’t improved, holding steady at 17/2, the Cavs’ have dropped to 9/1 to win it all. (The Philadelphia 76ers continue to sit third in the odds, at 13/4 to win the East and 14/1 to win the title.)

Story Continues

On one hand, a shift in betting lines doesn’t necessarily mean anything between the lines. As good as the Raptors have looked in taking care of business against the eighth-seeded Washington Wizards, questions about whether they’re really capable of beating a LeBron-led team four times in seven games will persist until they actually do it. And as shaky as the Cavs on the whole have looked in their two outings against the Pacers, they do still have the sport’s single most unstoppable offensive weapon, which tends to matter quite a bit in the postseason.

Still, it feels notable that oddsmakers’ view of the Cavs’ postseason viability has shifted enough to drop them beneath Toronto, even slightly. According to a Bovada spokesperson, this isn’t just the first time the Cavs haven’t been the East’s betting favorite since LeBron returned to Cleveland in the summer of 2014. It’s the first time that any LeBron-led team has not been viewed as the favorite to represent the Eastern Conference in the Finals since the 2009-10 postseason.

That’s when James’ Cavs lost to the Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett, Ray Allen-era Boston Celtics in six games in the 2010 Eastern Conference semifinals. Less than two months later, he took his talents to South Beach to join the Miami Heat, setting off a remarkable seven-year stretch in which he’s been the central figure in the NBA’s championship round.

When you watch how James continues to perform at historically insane levels, even at age 33 and in his 15th professional season, it can feel at times like there’s no end in sight for that run. This is inarguably the most limited overall team he’s had since his first stint in Cleveland, though, and this year’s Raptors are deeper, more talented and better than the models he’s dispatched in each of the past two postseasons … all of which has at least raised more doubt than there’s been about the top of the East’s mountain in a long, long time.

“So, the Raptors win Game 1 … and the Cavaliers get just shellacked at home in Game 1,” ESPN’s Zach Lowe told me Tuesday during an episode of his “The Lowe Post” podcast. “About 12 hours after that, all of ESPN’s NBA staff, talent, whatever, got a mass email saying, ‘Make sure your passports haven’t expired, just in case Toronto makes the Finals.’ Man, we never got that email before. We didn’t get that email last year. We didn’t get that email two years ago. People are starting to believe in the Raptors.”

And, just maybe, experiencing a waning belief in the Cavs come spring for the first time in nearly a decade.

More NBA coverage:

– – – – – – –

Dan Devine is a writer and editor for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at devine@oath.com or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Wife of Spurs coach Gregg Popovich dies

• Dan Wetzel: USA’s Fierce Five will forever have a dark cloud

• Reds waste no time, fire manager after 18 games

• MLB Power Rankings: Boston’s the team to beat

Golden State Warriors fans hoping Stephen Curry will return to the court any day now might have to hold out just a little longer. Curry’s recovery from an MCL injury may take the full six weeks, meaning he could be in danger of missing the start of the second round of the playoffs, according to Marcus Thompson II of The Athletic.

The original diagnosis for Curry’s injury had him out for four-to-six weeks. It will be four weeks Friday, and Curry isn’t much closer to returning to action, according to Thompson.

Friday will make four weeks since the injury. It is looking as if the ligament will need a full six weeks to heal. That six-week point would be May 4. That could mean it’s more realistic for Curry, who no doubt is desperate to return to action, to return for Game 3 of the next round — especially if you factor in the Warriors’ usual cautiousness.

If Curry does require six weeks to recover, that would put him in line for a return around May 4. That could mean Curry will miss the start of the Warriors’ Round 2 matchup.

There’s still a chance Curry could make a quick recovery and be available for the start of Round 2, but he would need a lot of things to work out in his favor:

Best-case scenario? One, the Warriors make quick work of San Antonio. Two, the Blazers win in New Orleans either tonight or Saturday (or both) and extend the series. Three, the next week yields significant progress for Curry’s MCL and maybe it is fully healed after five weeks (April 27). If the Warriors are already done with the first-round series, he could get some practices in and possibly be ready for Game 1 of the second round. That’s best case.

While Warriors fans want Curry to get back on the court as soon as possible, the team hasn’t struggled much without him in the first round. The Warriors beat the Spurs by a score of 110-97 on Thursday night to take a commanding 3-0 lead in the series.

Story Continues

If the Warriors can keep playing well without Curry, that makes it easier for the team to be cautious with him as he recovers from the injury.

And if the Warriors can get back Curry at 100 percent in the middle of a playoff run, that would be pretty terrifying for the rest of the league.

Stephen Curry could be looking at an early May return from his MCL injury. (AP Photo)

– – – – – – –

Chris Cwik is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at christophercwik@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter! Follow @Chris_Cwik

More from Yahoo Sports:



More from Yahoo Sports:

• Wife of Spurs coach Gregg Popovich dies

• Dan Wetzel: USA’s Fierce Five will forever have a dark cloud

• Reds waste no time, fire manager after 18 games

• MLB Power Rankings: Boston’s the team to beat

Bruno Sammartino, WWE Hall of Famer and record-holder for longest championship reign, passed away this week at the age of 82.

The Italian Superman from the small mountain town of Abruzzi, made waves by becoming a bodybuilder, breaking records in the 1950s before Vincent J. McMahon brought him over to join what was then called the WWF.

In 1963, Sammartino captured his first championship against Buddy Rogers in just 43 seconds, becoming the second-ever champion in the WWF. Bruno would hold the belt for almost eight years, a record that stands to this day and will likely never be broken in the WWE or any other promotion.

Trending: Oklahoma Rhea Fire: Pictures Show 253,000-Acre Wildfire Near Seiling

Sammartino remained a fan favorite into the 1980s before becoming a broadcaster and mentor for his son David. The WWE inducted Bruno into the Hall of Fame in 2013.

The WWE has a great obituary and history of Bruno Sammartino on its site and we recommend you read it. His Hall of Fame induction can be seen in the video above.

As word of his death spread, WWE Superstars past and present took to social media to pay their respects to the legend. Here are just a few.

Don't miss: Donald Trump Thinks FBI Investigation is a 'Witch Hunt' and a Third of the Country Agrees, Poll Finds













Most popular: ‘Fortnite’ Meteorite May Hit Tilted Towers Today - 4 Crazy Theories

















Story Continues

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekThe Atlanta Braves announced Wednesday that they’ve signed free agent Jose Bautista to a one-year minor-league contract.

The Braves said Bautista has reported to the team’s extended spring training, in Lake Buena Vista, Florida, and will play third base.

It’s been strange for many in baseball to see the first couple of weeks of the season played and Bautista without a team; though the 37-year-old hit just .203 last year, his 10th with the Toronto Blue Jays, he played in 157 games with 686 at-bats, with 27 doubles and 23 home runs.

Known mostly as an outfielder, Bautista has played third in the past; he played there eight times in 2017, and 394 times in is career. The last time he was at third with any regularity was in 2010, his third year with Toronto.

It’s perhaps unsurprising that the team to sign Bautista, a six-time All-Star, is Atlanta: the Braves’ general manager, Alex Anthopoulos, joined the team in 2017 after seven years as Toronto’s GM.

The Atlanta Braves have signed Jose Bautista to a one-year minor-league contract. (AP)

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Ohtani gets quick reality check after blazing start

• Report: Brady hasn’t decided on playing in 2018

• McKayla Maroney speaks out on Nassar abuse scandal

• Jeff Passan: How a Twitter war may spark a much-needed MLB change

