WASHINGTON — Should campaign statements made by a presidential candidate be considered relevant to actions taken once that person is in office?

That was one of the key questions facing the Supreme Court on Wednesday, as justices heard oral arguments in the highly anticipated case concerning President Trump’s travel ban, which primarily affects citizens of Muslim-majority nations.

Appearing first in support of keeping the ban in place, Solicitor General Noel Francisco argued for treating campaigning and governing as unrelated.

Francisco, who maintained that the version of the travel ban currently in place — the third iteration — was issued in response to a “worldwide, multi-agency security review,” argued that a candidate’s comments made during a presidential campaign should be considered simply as “statements made by a private citizen,” and that taking the oath of office “marks a fundamental transformation.”

To test Francisco’s view, Justice Elena Kagan offered a hypothetical situation in which a “vehement anti-Semite” is elected president sometime in the future following a campaign in which he “provokes hatred.” Once in office, this hypothetical president “asks his staff to issue recommendations so that he can issue a proclamation of this kind,” Kagan posits. “They do, and what emerges is a proclamation banning people from Israel.”

In such a scenario, Kagan asked, would the president’s proclamation be subject to review by the court? Francisco replied that if this hypothetical president’s staff came to him and said there was a serious national security threat that warranted such a ban, it would be “valid regardless” of any anti-Semitism in that president’s “heart of hearts.”

Neal Katyal, an attorney who argued against the Trump administration in Trump v. Hawaii, arrives outside the Supreme Court, April 25, 2018. (Photo: Andrew Harnik/AP) More

Justice Sonia Sotomayor interjected, arguing that the hypothetical president’s anti-Semitic background does raise questions about the validity of the process that led his staff to come up with that policy, considering that those “conducting the review work for the president and have been given orders” with a known desired outcome.

In this situation, Sotomayor suggested, there may be the need for “an independent arbiter to see if the proclamation process is what it says it is.”

Francisco dismissed this hypothetical scenario, noting that in the U.S. today, “We don’t have something like this where the president says ‘I want to block Jews.’”

But the president’s challengers would disagree.

During his time before the bench, Neal Katyal, the attorney representing the state of Hawaii and other challengers to the ban, argued that not only did Trump explicitly call for a “complete and total shutdown of Muslims entering the United States” as a candidate, but once in office, he and his staff “have rekindled those views.”

Katyal pointed to the president’s own active Twitter feed as evidence of this, noting that “Trump retweeted three virulently anti-Muslim videos.” Before the review process that led to the current ban, which was promulgated last September, “the president tweeted that he wants a tougher, less politically correct ban,” Katyal noted.

The travel ban into the United States should be far larger, tougher and more specific-but stupidly, that would not be politically correct! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 15, 2017

“The president could have moved away” from his anti-Muslim campaign statements, said Katyal, but instead he “has embraced them.”

Given a final opportunity to address the court before the end of Wednesday’s hearing, Francisco suggested that President Trump has, in fact, disavowed his previous comments.

“On September 25, the president made crystal clear that he never intended to impose a Muslim ban,” Francisco said. He paraphrased Trump as saying “there are many, many Muslims who love this country,” and “he has praised Islam as one of the great countries [sic] of the world.”FILE - In a Monday, April 16, 2018, file photo, Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump's personal attorney, center, leaves federal court, in New York. Cohen filed papers in federal court in Los Angeles Wednesday, April 25, 2016, saying he will assert his Fifth Amendment rights, stating that he will exercise his constitutional right against self-incrimination in a lawsuit brought by porn actress Stormy Daniels, who said she had an affair with Trump. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer, File)





LOS ANGELES (AP) -- President Donald Trump's personal attorney said Wednesday he will assert his constitutional right against self-incrimination in a civil case brought by a porn actress who said she had an affair with Trump.

Michael Cohen has been asking a federal judge in Los Angeles to delay Stormy Daniels' case after FBI agents raided his home and office earlier this month, seeking records about a nondisclosure agreement Daniels signed days before the 2016 presidential election.

Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, has said she had an affair with Trump in 2006 and has sued to invalidate the confidentiality agreement that prevents her discussing it. She's also suing Cohen, alleging defamation.

Cohen sought to delay the civil case 90 days after the raid, arguing that his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination may be jeopardized if legal proceedings aren't stayed.

But last week, U.S. District Judge S. James Otero said there were "gaping holes" in Cohen's request for a delay.

Cohen's lawyer argued in court last week that because the criminal investigation overlaps with issues in the lawsuit, his client's right against self-incrimination could be adversely impacted because he won't be able to respond and defend himself.

In a court filing on Wednesday, Cohen said that FBI agents had seized "various electronic devices and documents in my possession" which contain information about the $130,000 Daniels was paid as part of the agreement. Agents also seized communications with his lawyer, Brent Blakely, about the civil case, Cohen said.

Daniels has offered to return the $130,000 and argues the agreement is legally invalid because it was only signed by her and Cohen, not by Trump.

Cohen will assert his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination "in connection with all proceedings in this case," he wrote.

Daniels' attorney, Michael Avenatti, said Cohen's filing was a "stunning development."

"Never before in our nation's history has the attorney for the sitting President invoked the 5th Amend in connection with issues surrounding the President," he tweeted.

Video: Trump Asked About Pardoning Cohen, Call It a 'Stupid Question'

Watch news, TV and more on Yahoo View.



___

Associated Press writer Jill Colvin in Washington contributed to this report.Sen. Cory Gardner, R-Colo., is teaming up with Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., on a bill that could finally reconcile the current discrepancy between federal and state cannabis laws.

Earlier this year, Gardner protected thriving marijuana industries in states like Colorado by threatening to block all Justice Department nominees after Attorney General Jeff Sessions killed the 2013 “Cole memo,” which effectively allowed states to determine their own cannabis laws. Earlier this week, Gardner co-sponsored the Hemp Farming Act of 2018 with the aim of removing that form of cannabis from Schedule 1, the list of substances, including heroin, under the strictest federal controls.

And he’s not finished yet. Gardner is working with colleagues on a bipartisan legislative solution that can pass Congress and appear on President Trump’s desk — so he can deliver on his campaign position to make cannabis a states’ rights issue.

In 2012, Colorado and Washington became the first states to legalize marijuana for recreational use. Since then, seven more states and the District of Columbia followed suit.

Yahoo News reached out to Gardner Wednesday afternoon to discuss the conflict between state and federal law regarding cannabis, and the several ways he’s promoting the ability of states to set their own rules. He provided some details about the bill he’s drafting with Warren, which he said could appear as early as this week.

Yahoo News: Do you think that President Trump will be true to his word that the rescission of the Cole memo will not impact Colorado’s legal marijuana industry?

Gardner: I do believe he will be true to his word, and certainly has over the last several weeks since the agreement was entered into remained true to that word. His commitment was reconfirmed multiple times by the White House legislative director, Marc Short, as well as Sarah Huckabee Sanders during the live press briefing carried on national television. This is something the president has agreed to. I believe he will hold to his end of the bargain. And I believe we will also be able to work together on a federalist-based approach to resolve the conflict between federal and state law.

Mile High Green Cross is a recreational and medical marijuana dispensary serving the greater Denver area. Located south of downtown, the shop is one of many that makes up the city’s “Green Mile.” (Photo: Vince Chandler/The Denver Post) More

Were there any stipulations when Trump told you he would support a federalism-based legislative solution?

There were no stipulations that he placed on it but that doesn’t mean once we get our bill drafted — which we’re in the process of, talking to Republicans and Democratic members of the Senate who are involved on this issue — they may not embrace the language fully. They may want some tweaks. We’ll see how that goes, but I don’t envision the president changing his mind generally from the idea of letting the states make this decision.

I know it’s still in process but could you tell me a little about the bill you’re working on with your colleagues toward this goal?

Basically, this is a states’ rights bill. This is a federalism bill that says if a state like Colorado decides to move forward on medical marijuana, recreational marijuana, CBDs [cannabidiol, which is a medical cannabis compound that doesn’t make one “stoned”], hemp, that that activity is going to be lawfully, legally carried out. It opts the state out of the marijuana provisions of deferral law, of Schedule 1. While this doesn’t change Schedule 1 at all, it simply says if the state wants to do this, it no longer violates the law. So if Oklahoma wishes to maintain a prohibition on marijuana, then it would be illegal under state and local law in Oklahoma. But as far as Colorado goes, there would no longer be an illegal activity.

When can we expect this sort of bill to appear?

We’re going to have a meeting this afternoon in my office with a number of senators on both sides of the aisle. We’re going to talk about the concept and framework of the bill. It could be as early as later this week or it could be a couple of weeks from now. We haven’t quite decided exactly the time frame.And now it seems we can add “incel” to the list of triggers for mass murder, along with religion, race and a losing streak at the casino.

Shorthand for “involuntarily celibate,” it is apparently a rallying cry among men who gather in crevices of the internet and blame women — the entirety of the gender — for their inability to have normal relationships with the opposite sex.

Alek Minassian, the 25-year-old van driver who killed 10 and wounded 14 more when he plowed through a crowded Toronto sidewalk on Tuesday, appears to have posted a message on his (now disabled) Facebook account minutes before the attack, which read: “The Incel Rebellion has already begun! We will overthrow all the Chads and Stacys!” (“Chad” and “Stacy” are reportedly slang for sexually active men and women who are the objects of jealousy and resentment among the involuntarily celibate.)

Facts often change in high-profile investigations, but should hatred of women turn out to be the killer’s motive, it raises more than a few questions in these times of heightened tension: Is it a hate crime to target women? Is it terrorism if the motive is sexual rather than political? Do any of these semantics matter?

Steve Wessler, who developed the civil rights unit for the Maine attorney general’s office in 1992, responsible for enforcing the hate crime statutes of the time, and who went on to create the Center for Preventing Hate, says that technically it is a hate crime to target a victim based on gender, in Canada and in most U.S. states. He recalls prosecuting several such cases, most memorably against a “serial abuser who … would use degrading gender-based language. So in that way it’s no different than attacking a Muslim man and yelling anti-Muslim slurs.”

On the other hand, he says, hate crime charges on the basis of gender are probably less frequently brought because women are not a minority group. “There are people who think it is hard to make the case and don’t even try,” he said.

Yonge Street in Toronto, the day after a man drove a van striking and killing numerous pedestrians in his path. (Photo: Nathan Denette/Canadian Press via AP) More

A spike in misogynistic talk, particularly online, however, led the Southern Poverty Law Center this year to add “male supremacy” to the list of hateful ideologies it tracks. One of the newest forms of male supremacism, the center says, is “incel.” And the primary trigger for adding it to the list was Elliot Rodger, who Minassian mentioned in his pre-rampage Facebook post, and who the SPLC calls “the most chilling example of the most violent ends of this nihilistic, spiteful and self-centered ideology.” Before killing six and wounding 14 in a mass shooting in California, Rodger wrote a manifesto which blamed women for the fact that he was a virgin. “I’m the perfect guy and yet you throw yourselves at these obnoxious men instead of me, the supreme gentlemen,” he wrote.

Similarly, while this rampage fits the technical definition of terrorism — designed to inflict terror to further a worldview — it feels like a challenge to the long-accepted ways that word is used. Usually terrorism describes acts that are political or religious in origin, not violence by a random collection of strangers who come together on the internet to share their feelings of rejection and their entitlement to revenge.

“Incel is not something we usually talk about when it comes to terrorist attacks,” says Daniel Antonius, an assistant professor of psychiatry at the Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences at the University at Buffalo who studies the roots of terrorism, violence and aggression. “I admit it is new to me too. I had never heard of it. Calling it terrorism, then is an important pronouncement that it is a threat and we need to pay attention.”French President Emmanuel Macron told Congress Wednesday he’s positive that the United States will return to the Paris Agreement on climate change, after spending several cordial days with President Trump.

Speaking to a joint meeting of Congress, Macron emphasized the importance and history of the Franco-American alliance, which dates to the American Revolution. He expressed pride that both nations still uphold many of the same values and safeguard liberty by fighting terrorism. The main topic of his discussions with Trump was the pact to freeze Iran’s nuclear program, which the U.S. president has threatened to scrap but France wants to keep in force.

But as he wraps up a three-day visit to Washington, Macron also hinted at his profound disagreement with Trump’s decision to pull the U.S. from the international accord to limit the increase in average global temperature to less than 2°C during this century.

“What is the meaning of our life, really, if we work and live destroying the planet while sacrificing the future of our children? What is the meaning of our life if our decision, our confused decision, is to reduce the opportunities for our children or grandchildren?” he said.

“By polluting the oceans, not mitigating CO2 emissions and destroying our biodiversity, we are killing our planet. Let’s face it. There is no Planet B,” Macron said, to extended applause.

Slideshow: French President Emmanuel Macron visits Trump in 3-day trip to Washington >>>

France’s President Emmanuel Macron addresses joint meeting of Congress in the House chamber in Washington, D.C., on April 25, 2018. (Photo: Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images) More

Representatives of 196 countries negotiated the climate agreement at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Macron’s capital. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump aligned himself with the oil and gas industry, dismissed climate change as a hoax and vowed to remove the U.S. from the Paris Agreement if elected.

On June 1, 2017, Trump followed through on that promise and announced that he was beginning that process. However, under the agreement, a nation cannot submit its withdrawal until three years after it enters into force for that party — which was Nov. 4, 2016, for the U.S. Therefore, Trump needs to wait until Nov. 4, 2019, to formally request the nation’s removal. It would become official on Nov. 4, 2020.

During his speech to Congress, in reference to Trump’s “Make America Great Again” campaign slogan, Macron said, “Let us work together in order to make our planet great again and create new jobs and new opportunities while safeguarding our Earth.”

Last December, Macron awarded eighteen American climate scientists “Make Our Planet Great Again” grants worth millions of euros to relocate to France for the rest of Trump’s term.

Macron acknowledged this disagreement between the U.S. and France before Congress, but said that these are bound to happen “in all families.” He said the current disparity in the nations’ directions on environmental concerns is only short-term.

“We will have to face the same realities and we’re citizens of the same planet, so we will have to face it,” he said. “And I’m sure one day the United States will come back and join the Paris Agreement. And I’m sure we can work together to fulfill with you the ambitions of the global compact on the environment.”

France’s President Emmanuel Macron told a joint meeting of Congress that “we are killing our planet” on April 25, 2018, at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C. (Photo: Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images) More

Read more from Yahoo News:Rear Adm. Ronny Jackson, President Donald Trump's choice to be secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, leaves a Senate office building after meeting individually with some members of the committee that would vet him for the post, on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, April 24, 2018. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)

WASHINGTON (AP) — The Latest on Ronny Jackson, President Donald Trump's pick to be secretary of Veterans Affairs (all times local):

9:35 p.m.

Veterans Affairs nominee Dr. Ronny Jackson spent a late night at the White House huddled with top press aides.

The president's personal physician on Wednesday spent about 45 minutes meeting with White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, deputy Raj Shah and others as allegations surface that threaten to sink his nomination. Sanders said the group had been discussing Jackson's meetings on Capitol Hill.

Senate Democrats released a summary of accusations that included claims he recklessly prescribed drugs.

Shah said on CNN earlier that White House aides are "of course" preparing for the possibility that Jackson may decide to withdraw his nomination.

But Jackson appeared in good spirits as he left the meeting, telling reporters he looks "forward to talking to you guys over the next couple of days."

___

4:55 p.m.

Embattled Veterans Affairs nominee Dr. Ronny Jackson is denying allegations he was involved in a drunken car wreck.

Jackson tells reporters at the White House he "never wrecked a car." He adds, "I have no idea where that is coming from." He says he's moving forward with his nomination.

The VA nominee is responding after Senate Democrats released a summary of allegations against Jackson that includes claims he recklessly prescribed drugs, had his own private stock of controlled substances and got drunk and crashed a government car.

The White House has rallied behind Jackson, pointing to his past work as a physician to Presidents Donald Trump and Barack Obama.

___

4:45 p.m.

A summary of allegations against President Donald Trump's pick to head the Department of Veterans Affairs says he recklessly prescribed drugs, had his own private stock of controlled substances and got drunk and crashed a government car.

The summary was released by Democrats as the White House rallied behind Dr. Ronny Jackson.

Based on conversations with 23 of Jackson's colleagues and former colleagues, the review says Jackson was nicknamed "Candyman" by White House staff because he would provide prescriptions without paperwork. Drugs he prescribed included Ambien, used for sleep, and Provigil, used to help wake up.

The colleagues and former colleagues also told congressional staffers that there were multiple incidents of drunkenness on duty and said Jackson got drunk at a Secret Service going-away party and wrecked a government car.

Jackson says he "never wrecked a car."

___

3:10 p.m.

The chairman of a Senate panel reviewing President Donald Trump's pick to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs says the nominee will get a hearing to address complaints made against him of "unprofessional behaviors."

Republican Sen. Johnny Isakson says White House physician Ronny Jackson "deserves a hearing and he's going to get it."

The Senate Veterans Affairs Committee indefinitely postponed Jackson's confirmation hearing, which had been scheduled for Wednesday. It cited a need for more time to investigate complaints made by current and former employees of Jackson about his fitness to be VA secretary.

With Congress set to recess Friday for a week, the earliest a hearing could be held would be in about 10 days.

Jackson denies allegations of bad behavior and says he's looking forward to "answering everybody's questions."

___

2:35 p.m.

The White House is defending Veterans Affairs nominee Ronny Jackson, insisting the longtime White House doctor has been more thoroughly vetted than most nominees.

White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders says that, "Dr. Jackson's record as a White House physician has been impeccable."

And she says he's received more vetting than most nominees due to his close proximity to the last three presidents.

Still, Sanders says the White House is, "continuing to look at the situation."

Jackson is fighting to salvage his imperiled nomination amid accusations that include repeated drunkenness and creating a "toxic" work environment at the White House.

President Donald Trump has suggested publicly that Jackson may want to withdraw, citing what Trump calls unfair scrutiny.

___

12:20 a.m.

President Donald Trump is sending mixed signals about the future of his nominee to lead the Department of Veterans Affairs.At the moment when Esther Roberts decided to run for elected office, she was standing far from her home in Somers, Wisc., amid a sea of pink hats at the March for Women in Washington, D.C., in January 2017. And a few weeks later, when she decided exactly what elected office she was going to run for, she was back home on her computer looking at photos of the seven white men who were the trustees of her local village board.

“As soon as I saw that, I knew I’d made my choice,” says Roberts, who works as a housing inspector in Kenosha when she isn’t out asking for votes. “Right now, my 9-year-old-daughter isn’t represented on that board; half of my village isn’t represented on that board; I’m not represented on that board.”

Roberts is typical of the thousands of women who have entered the political arena in the past 18 months in the wake of Donald Trump’s election. But she is also representative of something more — the subset of that group who are running in rural areas, often for local seats, encouraged and assisted by nonprofits that see particular value in increasing the number of women in office in farm country.

“Women from rural areas are woefully underrepresented in government at all levels,” says Liz Johnson, a co-founder of VoteRunLead and head of that group’s Rural Women’s Initiative. For instance, she says, 51 percent of Minnesota’s 87 county commissions have no women on them, and all but one of those are in rural areas, she says.

Also, in Minnesota, 13 percent of rural state senate districts are represented by women, compared with 34 percent of urban and suburban seats; in the state legislature’s lower chamber, 19 percent of rural seats are held by women, versus 44 percent of suburban and urban seats, according to Debra Fitzpatrick, who tracks these numbers as part of her research for the Center on Women, Gender and Public Policy at the Humphrey School of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota.

“Minnesota is not an outlier, and the numbers translate to other states, generally speaking,” Johnson says.

“There are very few women in leadership roles in rural areas nationally, and there’s a large opportunity for women to make a real difference if they take on those roles,” agrees Ash Bruxvoort, the politics coordinator of Plate to Politics, an arm of the Women, Food and Agriculture Network, which has a new program to recruit and train women candidates. “Our goal is to have a woman at every table where decisions are made about food and ag policy,” she says, “and most of those are very local — from the state assembly down.”

And Roberts says she is running precisely to fill that gap. “It’s important to have more women in office everywhere but additionally important in rural areas, where it feels like we’re still a little stuck,” she says. “Out in the country, men serve in certain offices because men have always been in those offices. The more women run, the more voters can see that, yes, we are able to do this.”

Johnson says she has been “talking about rural women candidates to anyone who will listen” for years, and now “seems to finally be the time.”

“It used to be we were cajoling people to run, and that’s not happening anymore,” she says. “Now women in rural areas are coming to us. When Congress is frozen, it’s local communities that have to deal with the solutions right now,” she says of what she sees as the reason for the increased interest. “It really does trickle up. The more active county commissions and boards are at passing policy at the local level, that gives state legislatures permission to make changes that have to happen, and maybe what happens in state legislatures influences Washington.”

To accommodate the increase in women who are “running for everything from rural co-op boards to soil and water conservation boards to the city council to the state legislature,” Johnson says, VoteRunLead recently began partnering with such groups as Plate to Politics and the National Farmers Union to adapt its training program for rural candidates. The result has been a change of venue (seminars are now in places like Decorah, Iowa, and Peninsula, Ohio), a change of student body (the diversity metrics by which the group builds its classes now include a mix of rural and urban in addition to other standards, such as race and age) and a change of content (guest speakers include women who are already serving on county boards or as state legislators in farm communities.)By Brian Prowse-Gany and Joyzel Acevedo

As a prominent face in the world of adult entertainment, sex worker Ginger Banks has endured her share of insults and discrimination: “When I read comments on articles about sexual assault happening to sex workers, it breaks my heart. Because a lot of the people say, ‘Well, she’s a sex worker. She gets f***ed for money. Why can’t I grab her right now?’”

“Which makes no sense. If you are going to run into a UFC fighter on the street, you’re not going to punch him in the face and say, ‘That’s your job,’ right?”

Following a recent string of deaths by suicide and drug overdose among female adult-film actresses, including the popular performer August Ames, Banks has spoken out about the damaging and discriminatory treatment sex workers in the industry regularly face. The issue, Banks believes, stems from the stigma society places on sex work and the porn industry.

“There are people who probably respect drug dealers, that shoot and kill people, more than they do sex workers,” she says, “because sex is so negatively viewed still by such a large percentage of the country. … There are mothers who have had their children taken away from them because they are sex workers, there are banks and other institutions that have shut down sex workers’ accounts.”

“We’re all just people who want to provide for themselves and for their families.”

In this latest episode of “Unfiltered,” adult-film actress Ginger Banks explains why porn stars need more support for the kind of work they do — both within the industry and in society at large.

The 27-year-old has worked in the sex industry for eight years, first finding success as a webcam model and most recently having filmed a big-budget XXX feature. She was a chemical engineering student when she made the decision to pursue webcamming full-time, a choice that shocked her father. “When my dad found out, he immediately said, ‘Is someone forcing you to do this?’” she recalls, “Because it’s easier to think of that and accept that, than it is to realize that your independent, intelligent daughter decided to go into the sex work industry.”

Ginger Banks (Photo courtesy of Ginger Banks) More

It took time for Banks to get past her shame: “When I was lying about my job as a sex worker, that’s when I was the most depressed. Because deep down I knew there was nothing wrong with being a sex worker, but I had to hide it and I had to lie to people about my job. And that made me feel terrible.”

Now, with the new Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act and the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, known as the FOSTA-SESTA bill, signed by President Trump on April 11, 2018, Banks believes the struggles many sex workers face will not only increase, it will also “cause [them] to die.” “Full-service sex workers are already at a higher risk of being murdered due to their job,” explains Banks. “And taking away their resources to screen through violent clients is just going to make that worse.”

Online platforms, like classified advertising website Backpage.com, are being held responsible by the new law for any sex related content. (Image: Backpage) MoreThe Waffle House in Tennessee where four people were killed and four others wounded in a shooting will donate 100 percent of its proceeds over the next month to the families of the victims, its management announced Wednesday.

The restaurant had been closed since Sunday, when police say a 29-year-old gunman, Travis Reinking, opened fire with an AR-15 rifle outside before storming the popular 24-hour diner in Antioch. Inside, James Shaw Jr., a patron, was able to snatch the weapon away from Reinking, who fled the scene on foot. He was captured in the woods near his apartment after a 30-hour manhunt and taken into custody.

Slideshow: Waffle House shooting in Nashville – Suspect in custody >>>

Reinking was charged with four counts of criminal homicide and four counts of attempted murder.

Shaw was honored by state lawmakers who hailed him as a hero at an event at the state Capitol in Nashville on Tuesday.

“I never thought I’d be in a room with all the eyes on me, but you know, I’m very grateful to be here,” Shaw told the lawmakers.

The Antioch Waffle House is one of more than 1,500 operated by the Norcross, Ga., company. Employees from the Atlanta area were brought in to assist the reopening.

Shortly after the shooting, Shaw launched an online campaign to raise money for the families of the victims. It has raised more than $135,000 so far.

Separately, a campaign launched by freelance journalist Yashar Ali has raised more than $125,000 for Shaw and his 4-year-old daughter.

“James Shaw Jr. put his life on the line when he took on the gunman who killed four people at a Nashville area Waffle House,” Ali wrote on the campaign’s Go Fund Me page. “Since that horrific shooting, he has raised tens of thousands of dollars for the victims and shown a level of humility that has inspired many of us.”

“I normally don’t get involved directly in these matters,” Ali added, “but James’ grace has inspired me to start this page to give him the support I feel he deserves.”

Read more from Yahoo News:French President Emmanuel Macron drew Wednesday on the “shared bond” of U.S.-French relations to call for a rejection of isolationism and instead for the countries to bond together anew for a 21st century security.

Macron opened a joint meeting of Congress, saying “the American and French people have had a rendezvous with freedom.”

Speaking almost directly to President Donald Trump, Macron quickly turned to the top issues of Syria, free trade and the Paris accord on climate change — issues where he and Trump disagree — as he urged the United States not to retreat from world affairs, but to embrace its historic role as a military leader of world affairs.

Macron was speaking as part of his visit to the United States. It’s the first time a president from France has addressed Congress in more than a decade, but follows a tradition of foreign leaders appearing at the U.S. Capitol. (AP)

See more news-related photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo Twitter and Tumblr.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in its last and most highly anticipated case of the current term: Trump v. Hawaii, aka the Travel Ban case.

This case is being heard because of the government’s appeal of several lower court rulings against the president’s orders seeking to ban travel to the United States from several Muslim-majority countries. The third and most recent iteration the so-called travel ban was introduced last September.

Wednesday’s arguments may present to the court some novel questions, including whether retweets may be considered endorsements. The justices will be asked to consider four main issues, two of them procedural: whether the Supreme Court can even hear the case, since it concerns non-U.S. citizens abroad; and whether the lower courts have the power to issue nationwide injunctions against enforcing the ban.

The other two questions consider the merits of the ban, and whether the president acted beyond his authority under the Immigration and Nationalization Act, and if the proclamation violates the establishment clause of the Constitution’s First Amendment, by effectively discriminating against Muslims. The order doesn’t single out Muslims as such, but looming over the arguments is Trump’s proclamation, as a candidate in late 2015, calling for a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslim entry into the United States.

President Trump, with Vice President Mike Pence, left, and Defense Secretary James Mattis, signs an executive action on extreme vetting, Jan. 27, 2017. (Photo: Susan Walsh/AP) More

The suit, filed by the state of Hawaii, three individuals and the nonprofit Muslim Association of Hawaii, is the latest twist in the saga of Trump’s efforts to crack down on immigration from a specific group of nations. It began in the first week of his presidency with an executive order titled “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States.” That order, which prompted nationwide protests and was quickly blocked by a federal court in Washington State, suspended for 90 days nationals from seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the country. On March 6, Trump signed a second order with the same title and only slightly different provisions. Again, the order faced immediate legal challenges and was enjoined by district courts in Hawaii and Maryland.

Slideshow: Protests against Trump’s travel ban hit the streets of NYC >>>

In September, the White House tried again with a presidential proclamation that it claimed was written in response to a report by the secretary of homeland security on countries it deemed “inadequate” at sharing information related to terrorism. This time, in addition to blocking entry for most nationals of six majority-Muslim countries, now including Chad, it excluded nationals of North Korea, and some government officials from Venezuela. Unlike the first two executive orders, which were intended to last for 90 days, the September proclamation was essentially open-ended.

As before, the administration was taken to court and the district court in Hawaii issued a preliminary nationwide injunction against the proclamation, which the court deemed had the same flaws as the second executive order. The government appealed to the Supreme Court, which agreed to allow enforcement of Travel Ban 3.0, pending a final ruling.

The latest proclamation may have prompted considerably fewer public demonstrations than the first two bans, but it faces no less controversy. Since agreeing to hear oral arguments in the contentious case, the Supreme Court has been flooded with amicus curiae (friend of the court) briefs from a wide variety of individuals and organizations.One of the prosecutors who brought the case against I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby says President Trump’s pardon of the ex-top aide to former Vice President Dick Cheney sends a not-so-subtle message to potential witnesses in special counsel Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation: Stay loyal to Trump and Trump will stay loyal to you.

“I don’t see any other logic to it,” Peter Zeidenberg, top deputy to the special counsel in Libby’s case, Patrick Fitzgerald, said in a recent interview for Yahoo News’ Skullduggery podcast.

Libby was convicted in 2007 of lying to investigators and obstruction of justice in the 2003 leak of covert CIA officer Valerie Plame’s identity. Then President George W. Bush later commuted Libby’s 30-month prison sentence, but did not issue a pardon.

“He already had his law license back,” Zeidenberg said. “It’s not a case, if you thought he was treated unjustly, that the poor guy is rotting in jail and is gonna die in prison. I mean, this isn’t a situation like that.”

Trump issued the full pardon to Libby on April 13 — four days after the FBI raid on the office and hotel of the president’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen.

“There was no urgency or critical need to step in right now except for what else was going on — Trump’s consigliere, Michael Cohen, had just gotten his office raided,” Zeidenberg said.

The raid led to speculation that Cohen could face federal charges related to the hush-money payment he made to porn star Stormy Daniels on the eve of the 2016 presidential election — and the possibility Cohen could strike a deal with prosecutors to incriminate Trump and mitigate his own sentence.

Over the weekend, Trump predicted that Cohen would not “flip” on him, and on Tuesday he sharply rejected a question from a reporter who asked whether he is considering pardoning Cohen.

“Stupid question,” the president shot back.

Download or subscribe on iTunes: “Skullduggery” by Yahoo News

“I don’t think it’s a reach to think he’s sending a message to others, and hoping they’ll stay strong and won’t cooperate and hold out hope for a pardon,” Zeidenberg said.

Zeidenberg said Trump’s pardon of Libby would likely not be a concern of Mueller’s investigation. But it would be if the president moved to pardon Cohen or any of those already charged in the case — like former National Security Director Michael Flynn, Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, adviser Rick Gates or foreign policy aide George Papadopoulos.

“If he pardons Cohen, if he pardons Manafort, if he pardons Gates or any of these other guys — Flynn, Papadopoulos — any of these people, then at that point I think you’re getting much closer to an obstruction case,” Zeidenberg said.

Trump, as president, has the absolute authority to pardon anyone. But Zeidenberg said that a pardon could be evidence of obstruction, depending on the motive.

“The fact that the conduct in and of itself is legal is not the end of the inquiry,” Zeidenberg said. “If he’s doing it in the hope to thwart a legitimate investigation into his own conduct, then yeah, I think those are building blocks to an obstruction piece.”

More “Skullduggery” from Yahoo News:The mentally unstable gunman suspected of opening fire at a Waffle House restaurant in the middle of the night was arrested not far from his apartment Monday after hiding from police for more than a day following the attack that killed four people, authorities said.

Authorities had mounted a massive manhunt for 29-year-old Travis Reinking, after the Sunday morning attacks, in which a gunman clad only in a jacket used an AR-15 rifle to kill four and injure others.

Metropolitan Nashville Police announced Monday on Twitter that he was taken into custody not far from his apartment.

_____

See more news-related photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo Twitter and Tumblr.A Canadian man who apparently had a grudge against women was charged with murder Tuesday after allegedly plowing a rented van onto a crowded Toronto sidewalk, killing 10 people — an incident that shocked the nation.

Police said the suspect, 25-year-old Alek Minassian, was not known to them before Monday’s carnage in Canada’s most populous city, which also left 14 people injured. Most of the victims were women.

Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale played down any suggestion that the attack bore the hallmarks of those carried out by truck-driving extremists in London, Nice and other cities, saying “there is no discernable connection to national security.”

But authorities said the incident during the busy lunch hour Monday was undoubtedly deliberate.(AFP)

See more updates by Jonathan Rumley/Yahoo News Canada >>>

_____

See more news-related photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo Twitter and Tumblr.TEL AVIV — Cyrus II of Persia founded one of the greatest empires in history, promulgated what is believed to be the world’s first declaration of human rights, and is a national hero in Iran. Oh, and ever since last December, when the United States recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and made plans to relocate the U.S. embassy there, prominent Israelis have explicitly compared Donald Trump to the ruler who has gone down in history as Cyrus the Great.

The Trump-as-Cyrus meme was made explicitly by Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, during his visit to Washington last month. “I want to tell you that the Jewish people have a long memory, so we remember the proclamation of the great king, Cyrus the Great,” Netanyahu said at the White House. “And we remember how a few weeks ago, President Donald J. Trump recognized Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.” Netanyahu has been joined by other prominent ministers in his right-wing coalition, including Minister of Education Naftali Bennett and Minister of Justice Ayelet Shaked, who tweeted, “Trump is in his generation as Cyrus was in his.” Yehuda Glick, the American-born rabbi who is a leader of the movement to build a third Jewish temple in Jerusalem, has said that anyone who does not see that Trump’s declaration resembles Cyrus’s “should buy himself a new pair of glasses.”

So who was Cyrus II, and why are leaders comparing him to Trump? Cyrus is mentioned in several books of the Bible, including Ezra, Isaiah, and Second Chronicles. According to the biblical narrative, after the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar II invaded the ancient Kingdom of Judah, he destroyed Solomon’s Temple in Jerusalem and exiled its Jewish inhabitants to Babylon in the sixth century B.C., the period known as the Babylonian Captivity. But after 70 years, the Persians under Cyrus conquered Babylonia and allowed the Jews to return to their homeland and rebuild the temple. The Second Temple stood for approximately 500 years before the Romans destroyed it.

What did Netanyahu mean by the comparison? He may have simply wished to remind the world that the historic connection of the Jewish people to their ancestral homeland goes back millennia. Or he may have sought to draw a connection between two figures who, as the leaders of the global superpowers of their respective times, were generous to the Jews. Or perhaps it was nothing more than grandiose rhetoric, intended to flatter a president known for being especially susceptible to flattery.

Coins with the images of U.S. President Donald Trump and King Cyrus, in honor of Trump’s recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, are seen in a workshop coined in Tel Aviv on Feb. 28, 2018. (Photo: Sebastian Scheiner/AP) More

And of course, Netanyahu’s rhetoric may have been intended to resonate with entirely different audience: Trump’s Christian Zionist supporters. Vox’s Tara Isabella Burton has argued that some Christian evangelicals liken Trump to Cyrus in to reconcile themselves to Trump’s un-Christian behavior and personal indiscretions. Cyrus is the only non-Jew in the Hebrew Bible to whom the Hebrew word mashiach — meaning “anointed one” or “messiah” — is applied. According to Burton, for evangelicals, Trump is — like Cyrus — anointed: that is, he is an irreligious man who, despite being unbelieving himself, is nonetheless an unwitting agent of God’s plan.

And while Israelis debate whether it’s in Israel’s long-term interests to side with Trump’s pro-Israel evangelical supporters, some Israelis, along with their evangelical allies in America, discern a deeper mystical meaning in current affairs. A small but growing movement on the fringes of Orthodox Judaism in Israel hopes to build the Third Temple in Jerusalem and reinstitute the sacrificial rites practiced in the Second Temple, a messianic aspiration that has been central to Jewish liturgy ever since the Second Temple’s destruction. Some among them speculate that Trump’s Jerusalem declaration is a divine sign that indicates that Trump, like Cyrus, will permit the Jews to rebuild the temple.AP reports: A large explosion echoed across the city, shattering windows miles away from the attack site and damaging several nearby vehicles.

Five small children and 21 women are among the dead.

The Islamic State has claimed responsibility.

Afghanistan will hold parliamentary elections in October.President Trump boasted that North Korea has already made several key concessions before his anticipated meeting with Kim Jong Un — whereas the United States has forfeited nothing.

On Twitter Sunday morning, Trump admonished Chuck Todd, moderator of NBC’s “Meet the Press,” for voicing reservations about the anticipated U.S.-North Korea summit. Trump said only time would tell whether or not his efforts will be successful but insisted previous administrations had failed to act and he was doing what “should have been done a long time ago.”

Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd of Fake News NBC just stated that we have given up so much in our negotiations with North Korea, and they have given up nothing. Wow, we haven’t given up anything & they have agreed to denuclearization (so great for World), site closure, & no more testing! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 22, 2018





….We are a long way from conclusion on North Korea, maybe things will work out, and maybe they won’t – only time will tell….But the work I am doing now should have been done a long time ago! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 22, 2018





Trump’s claim that North Korea has agreed to denuclearize is incorrect. In fact, whether North Korea would be willing to forfeit its nuclear arsenal remains perhaps the most important issue.

Kim’s central message has been that developing nuclear weapons and long-range missiles will enable him to deter enemy nations. His government’s propaganda vilifies the United States as an imperialist power and insists nuclear weapons are essential to safeguarding North Korea’s national sovereignty. The recent acceleration of North Korea’s weapons program is a cause of deep concern for U.S. allies in the region like Japan.

Trump’s tweets after Todd questioned the preconditions behind Trump’s planned summit with Kim, expected to take place in several weeks. Earlier Sunday morning on “Today,” Todd was skeptical of Kim’s supposed willingness to cooperate with the U.S.

“He seems to be giving very little but making it seem like he’s giving a lot. And he’s giving off a tone of cooperation. Look, the tone in itself is a positive development. As a diplomatic overture, the U.S. would look terrible if they didn’t accept that kind of overture and at least continue the conversation,” Todd said.

Nevertheless, he continued, the United States hasn’t asked for many preconditions ahead of this potentially historic summit — yet the North Koreans have already gotten a lot.

“What has the United States gotten yet? We don’t have a release of any of those Americans that they held captive. We don’t have a pledge of denuclearization as the ultimate goal,” Todd said. “There’s a lot of things they are not promising that is raising some red flags.”

Kim announced Saturday in a broadcast on the Korean Central News Agency, the government’s news agency, that the nation would stop testing nuclear weapons and launching intercontinental ballistic missiles. He also announced the closure of a nuclear testing site in the northern region of the country.

This announcement was Kim’s opening move for setting the tone for his scheduled meetings with South Korean President Moon Jae-in next Friday and with Trump in late May or early June. Trump swiftly responded on Twitter.

North Korea has agreed to suspend all Nuclear Tests and close up a major test site. This is very good news for North Korea and the World – big progress! Look forward to our Summit. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 20, 2018





Read more from Yahoo News:Image from surveillance footage of a suspect the New York Police Department is seeking in conjunction with a hate crime investigation involving a subway assault. (Photo: NYPD)

The New York City Police Department is investigating an incident involving a Hispanic man, who was allegedly beaten and pushed onto the subway tracks Friday night at Manhattan’s Union Square subway station.

According to the NYPD, the suspect is a black man wearing a red hat and red T-shirt that displayed President Trump’s campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again.” The suspect reportedly shouted racial slurs at the victim.

A press release sent out by the NYPD on Saturday said the incident occurred after the 24-year-old victim “engaged in a verbal dispute” with the suspect on board a 4 train as it approached the Union Square station.

The NYPD said the suspect “made multiple derogatory statements regarding the victim’s ethnicity” during the argument. After the victim got off the train, police said the suspect followed him onto the platform and “punched him on his head multiple times” before pushing the victim onto the tracks.

The victim was helped off the tracks by a friend and another person before a train passed by, police said. The victim was taken to a hospital and treated for injuries he sustained when he fell onto the tracks.

A police source confirmed to Yahoo News that the incident is being investigated as a hate crime and that the victim is Mexican. Local news station NY1 reported the suspect berated the victim for “taking jobs” away from Americans.

The NYPD is seeking public assistance in identifying the suspect. Police released a video of the suspect standing on the train platform. The NYPD described the suspect as a “male, black, dark complexion, heavy build, wearing a red ‘Make America Great Again’ hat, a red shirt with the words ‘Make America Great Again’ in white letters, blue dungaree overalls, a black ¾ jacket, and jewelry around his neck.”

Anyone with information about the crime is asked to call the NYPD’s Crime Stoppers hotline at 1-800-577-TIPS (8477).

Read more from Yahoo News:Michael Cohen, Donald Trump’s lawyer and self-proclaimed “fixer,” likes to boast about his loyalty. “I’m the guy who would take a bullet for the president,” he told Vanity Fair last year. “There’s no amount of money in the world that could get me to disclose anything about them,” he said, reporting that he had turned down a $10 million offer for a tell-all book about Trump and his family.

That was the accepted view of Cohen by legal observers right up until the FBI search of Cohen’s office and residences last week, and the disclosure that he was under investigation by the U.S. attorney’s office in Manhattan. Since then, a number of analysts have been wondering aloud whether Cohen’s loyalty will pass the acid test of a federal indictment. That includes Michael Avenatti, the lawyer for actress Stormy Daniels, who told The View that without question, Cohen “is going to roll on the president. … He’s not going to look at his wife and say I’m going to take a bullet for this president.” Jay Goldberg, Trump’s own former attorney, told Trump directly not to trust his longtime associate. The 51-year-old Cohen, Goldberg warned, is “not suited to stand up to the rigors of jail life,” by which he meant the possibility of being raped in prison. Perhaps not since Thomas à Becket has one man’s conscience been so thoroughly debated and dissected in public.

What’s remarkable about this analysis is the largely unquestioned assumption that Cohen will be indicted, and that he has incriminating information on Trump to trade for leniency. On the former point, we don’t know, of course, but on Friday his own lawyer, in the course of fighting off a lawsuit by Daniels, predicted that an indictment might be imminent. The investigation was reportedly focused on Cohen’s role in paying off Daniels to keep quiet about her relationship with Trump. But Cohen has a business empire of his own, in taxi medallions and real estate, that could also be the meat in the ham sandwich that, as the saying goes, prosecutors can indict at will.

As for Trump, Bloomberg reported that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein assured him last week that he isn’t a “target” of the U.S. attorney’s investigation, but there’s a widespread belief that all that could change with a word from Cohen.

Trump himself weighed in with a series of tweets Saturday morning, reassuring his followers that “I don’t see Michael doing that despite the horrible Witch Hunt and the dishonest media!”

“Most people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble,” Trump wrote, adding pointedly: “…even if it means lying or making up stories.”

But Cohen is too loyal to do that, isn’t he?

I do not presume to know another man’s heart. But I side with the skeptics who, when Cohen says he’d take a bullet for Trump, suspect he has in mind at worst a flesh wound. From the evidence, Trump and Cohen did not have a particularly long or close friendship; they met when Cohen bought an apartment in a Trump building, and their relationship seems to have been mostly about business. And as the Times reported Friday, Trump hasn’t always been kind to Cohen, who didn’t get the White House job he is said to have coveted — or, in the pungent phrasing of Trump confidant Roger Stone, “Donald goes out of his way to treat him like garbage.”

But the larger point is that if Trump is relying on personal loyalty to see him through this crisis, it is further evidence that the self-proclaimed master dealmaker and negotiator is a self-deluded fool. It is a quality Trump is known to prize above all others; in “The Art of the Deal” he lavishes praise on his onetime mentor Roy Cohn for how he stood by his friends, leaving out the fact that he cut off contact with Cohn when the latter was dying of AIDS. Former FBI director James Comey — who learned about the limits of loyalty as a U.S. attorney, when he used informants to take down the leaders of the Gambino crime family — described Trump demanding his “loyalty” in a conversation “like Sammy the Bull’s Cosa Nostra induction ceremony.” Comey offered “honesty” instead. As the title of his new book signifies, he held himself to “a higher loyalty,” to the country and the Constitution. (Trump has denied the conversation.)Several former U.S. presidents were among the 1,500 mourners expected to gather at a Houston church on Saturday for the funeral of former first lady Barbara Bush, who died on Tuesday at the age of 92.

Bush, the wife of the 41st president of the United States, George H.W. Bush, and the mother of the 43rd, George W. Bush, will be remembered at an invitation-only service at St. Martin’s Episcopal Church, where she and her family have been members since the 1950s.

Among those planning to attend are former Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton, current first lady Melania Trump, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former first lady Michelle Obama.

High-ranking officials from the elder Bush’s administration, including former Vice President Dan Quayle and Dick Cheney, who served as defense secretary before later becoming George W. Bush’s vice president, will also be among the mourners.

President Donald Trump is not expected in Houston. (Reuters)

See more news-related photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo Twitter and Tumblr.President Trump’s simmering anger over the criminal investigation of his personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, finally found an outlet Saturday: an article in the New York Times suggesting that Cohen’s loyalty to the president might break under the threat of an indictment.

In a series of tweets starting around 6 a.m. ET, Trump attacked a front-page Times article headlined (in the print edition) “Punching Bag for President Has New Clout,” and (on the website): “Michael Cohen Has Said He Would Take a Bullet for Trump. Maybe Not Anymore.” Trump fired off the tweets from his Mar-a-Lago estate in South Florida, where he has spent much of the week.

Both versions make the point that Cohen, who, according to the article, has been the object of Trump’s bullying, now may be in a position to give prosecutors evidence they could use against Trump in court. The article cites Trump’s confidant Roger Stone as saying: “Donald goes out of his way to treat him [Cohen] like garbage.”

Trump has reportedly been told he is not a “target” of the investigation in the Southern District of New York, and it is not known what Cohen might be able to tell prosecutors, or what was seized in the April 9 FBI raid of his home and office. The raid is believed to have focused on Cohen’s role in paying off the adult actress Stormy Daniels not to discuss her relationship with Trump. However, Cohen has been a high-ranking executive in the Trump Organization and describes himself as the president’s “fixer.”

Aides to the president have described him as furious over the search of Cohen’s records and obsessed with the case. His tweets began with an attack on one of the reporters on the story, claiming he doesn’t speak to her.

In fact, the reporter, Maggie Haberman, has been one of the reporters Trump has spoken to the most, including an on-the-record Oval Office interview.

….non-existent “sources” and a drunk/drugged up loser who hates Michael, a fine person with a wonderful family. Michael is a businessman for his own account/lawyer who I have always liked & respected. Most people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble, even if…. — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018





….it means lying or making up stories. Sorry, I don’t see Michael doing that despite the horrible Witch Hunt and the dishonest media! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 21, 2018





Cohen hasn’t been indicted for anything (although his own lawyer said Friday he expects he will be), so the issue of cooperation with the government presumably hasn’t arisen. But a number of people close to Trump, including his former lawyer Jay Goldberg and the legal scholar Alan Dershowitz, warned the president in the past week not to count on Cohen’s loyalty in the face of a possible jail term.

In referring to Cohen as “a businessman for his own account,” Trump seemed to be attempting to distance himself from Cohen’s affairs. Cohen does have his own interests in real estate and taxi medallions, but he was deeply involved in deals for the Trump Organization, including its efforts to build a tower in Moscow as recently as 2015.

The president didn’t specify who he meant by a “drunk/drugged up loser who hates Michael,” but in a tweet a few hours later, Haberman offered her opinion that he was referring to his former aide Sam Nunberg. It was also unclear why Trump claimed to have “nothing to do with” Haberman, who covers the president regularly for the Times. Her colleague Michael S. Schmidt tweeted this photo, showing Haberman with the president, shortly after Trump’s tweetstorm:

"who I don’t speak to and have nothing to do with.." pic.twitter.com/972GAcsxYp — Michael S. Schmidt (@nytmike) April 21, 2018





Read more from Yahoo News:WASHINGTON — The newly released memos by FBI Director James Comey reveal that President Trump repeatedly pushed back hard on claims that he once consorted with prostitutes in Moscow, claiming that he didn’t even spend a night in the Russian capital during his 2013 trip there.

At a Jan. 27, 2017, private dinner with the president, Comey wrote, Trump was adamant that the claim about hookers in Moscow, made in a dossier compiled by a former British spy Christopher Steele, was a “complete fabrication.” He told Comey he had checked with associates and was reminded “that he didn’t stay overnight in Russia” on the trip, during which he presided over the Miss Universe contest. After flying into Moscow in the morning, he “departed for New York that same night,” Trump told Comey, according to one of the former FBI chief’s memos.

But there is abundant evidence that Trump’s account to the FBI director was false: Social media posts, photographs and the account of at least two associates — including Trump’s former security chief — indicate that Trump arrived in Moscow on Nov. 8, 2013, spent the night at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel, and didn’t leave the city until after the Miss Universe was finished late on the evening of Nov. 9.

Indeed, Trump himself had previously boasted of spending more time in Moscow than he admitted to Comey. “I called it my weekend in Moscow,” Trump said during a September 2015 radio interview on “The Hugh Hewitt Show.”

As recounted in the book “Russian Roulette” by myself and David Corn, Trump flew to Moscow on Nov. 8, 2013, aboard a plane owned by Phil Ruffin, a wealthy Las Vegas casino magnate, after attending a celebration for evangelist Billy Graham’s 95th birthday the night before in North Carolina. Trump then attended a lunch that day with Russian businessmen at the Nobu restaurant, a swank eatery co-owned by actor Robert De Niro and Aras Agalarov, a billionaire oligarch who was Trump’s partner in the Miss Universe pageant.

A photograph of Trump in front of the Nobu restaurant, standing in broad daylight side by side with Emin Agalarov, the pop-singer son of Aras Agalarov, was posted by the restaurant on its Facebook page. It is dated Nov. 8, 2013.

The posting corroborates the account of Rob Goldstone, Emin Agalarov’s British publicist, who in “Russian Roulette” describes the Nov. 8 lunch in great detail as well as Trump’s attendance at a birthday party for Aras Agalarov later that night. According to Goldstone, Trump stayed at the party until 1:30 a.m. before returning to his hotel room at the Ritz-Carlton.

The next day, Nov. 9, Trump is still in Moscow, tweeting about the great time he was having in Moscow and how he was looking forward to the Miss Universe pageant that night. “I was just given a great tour of Moscow — fantastic, hard working people. CITY IS REALLY ENERGIZED! The World will be watching tonight!” Trump wrote in a tweet posted at 6:21 a.m. on Nov. 9.

I was just given a great tour of Moscow – fantastic, hard working people. CITY IS REALLY ENERGIZED! The World will be watching tonight! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 9, 2013

Keith Schiller, Trump’s longtime security chief, who accompanied him on the trip, corroborated that Trump spent the evening in the city at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel when he testified behind closed doors before the House Intelligence Committee. As recounted by NBC News, the New York Times and other news organizations, Schiller told the panel that on the day they arrived he was approached by an unidentified Russian who offered to send five prostitutes to his hotel room that evening — an offer that Schiller said he turned down.

“That night, two sources said, Schiller said he discussed the conversation with Trump as Trump was walking back to his hotel room, and Schiller said the two men laughed about it as Trump went to bed alone,” according to the NBC News account of Schiller’s testimony. “Schiller testified that he stood outside Trump’s hotel room for a time and then went to bed.

“One source noted that Schiller testified he eventually left Trump’s hotel room door and could not say for sure what happened during the remainder of the night.”

Trump’s apparently false account to Comey doesn’t prove that the allegation about hookers in Moscow is true. Comey has told interviewers this week that he doesn’t know whether the prostitutes claim in the Steele dossier is true, and in “Russian Roulette,” Steele is quoted as telling associates he now believes that there is only a “50-50” chance that the incident actually happened.Thousands of students walked out of classes across the United States on Friday, marking the 19th anniversary of the massacre at Columbine High School with a show of unity aimed at pressuring politicians to enact tighter gun restrictions.

Students from more than 2,600 schools and institutions were expected to leave their classes at 10:00 a.m. local time, organizers said. Many wore orange, a color that has come to represent the movement against gun violence, as they observed a 13-second silence in honor of those killed at Columbine.

On April 20, 1999, two Columbine seniors rampaged through their school, killing 12 of their classmates and a teacher before committing suicide. Since then, mass shootings have occurred with shocking frequency across the United States.

The second deadliest public school shooting in U.S. history took place in Parkland, Florida, on Feb. 14, leaving 17 dead. The shooting set off a national student movement calling for an end to gun violence and tighter gun restrictions. (Reuters)

See related slideshow: Paducah, Jonesboro, Columbine and Newtown: A chain of tragedy and grief >>>

See more news-related photo galleries and follow us on Yahoo News Photo Twitter and Tumblr.The former State Department diplomat who oversaw U.S. government sanctions policy said he was “extremely” frustrated when the Obama administration issued “weak” and “frankly inadequate” sanctions against Russia in December 2016 in response to that country’s campaign to disrupt the U.S. presidential election.

Daniel Fried, who retired in 2017 after a 40-year State Department career that included serving as U.S. sanctions “coordinator” under President Obama, offered his sharp critique of the Obama administration’s response to Russian actions during an interview on the Yahoo News podcast “Skullduggery.”

“The Obama administration — in my view, and I was in it, OK? I was working on sanctions then — did not respond with adequate strength to the Russian interference in our elections,” Fried said. ”What we did in December 2016 was a very light set of sanctions, which I think was frankly inadequate. … We went after some cybertargets, we expelled some diplomats, we sanctioned some of the intel services. But those sanctions are not apt to be terribly effective, and we knew it. This was not enough.”

Fried was referring to a series of sanctions Obama announced in late December 2016. Declaring that “all Americans should be alarmed” by Russia’s actions during the election, Obama said at the time that the actions were “a necessary and appropriate response to efforts to harm U.S. interests in violation of established international norms of behavior.”

But Fried said the lack of teeth in the president’s actions may have only emboldened the Russians. “I think it was an inadequate response, and I think the Russians understood it as inadequate,” Fried said. “The Russians are pretty good at calculating costs and benefits.”

Fried said he gives the Obama White House “a lot of credit” for a forceful response to Russia’s “aggression” in Ukraine in 2014 — including authorizing the deployment of NATO troops in the Baltics and Poland. But asked how frustrated he was by the White House election response, Fried replied: “Extremely. I think we missed an opportunity.”

Fried’s comments came during a wide-ranging interview in which he described as “puzzling” the fact that President Trump’s White House undercut U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley this week by pulling back on plans for additional sanctions against the Russians to punish President Vladimir Putin’s government for its support of the Syrian regime of President Bashar Assad.

In an interview on CBS’s “Face the Nation” last Sunday, Haley declared that the new sanctions would be announced by the next day by Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin — an announcement that never came after Trump overruled his advisers and scrapped the additional sanctions. After White House economics adviser Larry Kudlow suggested Haley had misstated U.S. policy because she was confused, Haley issued a stinging rebuke: “With all due respect, I don’t get confused.”

Download or subscribe on iTunes: “Skullduggery” by Yahoo News

Fried said he found Trump’s pullback on sanctions especially “disheartening” because the administration had just a week earlier unveiled stiff actions — including blacklisting Russian oligarchs and senior government officials — in response to what was described as Moscow’s “malign activity” around the globe. At a moment when the Trump administration could make a “reasonable case” that it was starting to develop a serious policy toward Russia, Fried said, the president had once again undercut the effort.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Russian President Vladimir Putin, and U.S President Trump during the G-20 summit in Hamburg, Germany, in July 2017. (Photo: Mikhail Klimentyev, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) More

Fried also elaborated on comments he made to Yahoo News last year about his distress when he learned that, shortly after Trump took office, the White House was planning to scrap all sanctions against Russia — including those imposed in 2014 in response to that country’s intervention in Ukraine.Republican Congresswoman Claudia Tenney’s campaign sent out an email Tuesday calling on supporters to sign a petition to “lock up” former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and former FBI Director James Comey. Tenney was one of 11 Republican House members to sign a letter last week asking the Department of Justice and the FBI to open an investigation into Clinton, Comey and others related to their activities both during and since the 2016 election campaign.

Other individuals named by Tenney and the letter are former Attorney General Loretta Lynch, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, as well as FBI agent Peter Strzok and FBI lawyer Lisa Page. All have been frequent targets of President Donald Trump’s ire amid what he has slammed as an unfair focus on the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and possible collision with the Trump campaign.

But in an email that went out to supporters of her campaign for her re-election in New York, Tenney, in language at least, went a step further.

Trending: Final NFL Consensus Mock Draft Results: Who's Going Where?

“ADD YOUR NAME: Lock Them Up!” read a link calling on people to click to sign the petition. The URL for the petition web address also uses “lock them up.”

Rep. Claudia Tenney's campaign has released a petition email calling for the imprisonment of Comey, Clinton et. al. pic.twitter.com/qVwXGoqZQ3 — Nick Reisman (@NickReisman) April 24, 2018





Reached for comment, a spokesperson for the campaign said: "The email states that the individuals listed have been referred for criminal investigation. They should of course receive due process. Rep. Tenney's position is that no one is above the law."

Don't miss: Syria Chemical Attacks Are ‘Happening All the Time’ and Will Keep Happening, Says Journalist Who Exposed Assad Assaults

Still, the phrase used echoes back to one that became synonymous with Trump’s campaign. At Trump rallies across the country during his acrimonious battle with Clinton in 2016, chants of “lock her up” greeted the mention of his opponent’s name.

hillary clinton More

Nicholas Hunt/Getty Images

As recently as February, the chant was heard at the Conservative Political Action Conference when Clinton’s name was said on stage.

Most popular: What Is an 'Incel?' Violent Misogynist Subculture Referenced by Toronto Van Attack Suspect Explained

Of Clinton, the Tenney campaign email said that Clinton “potentially broke the law when disguising payments to Fusion GPS, the firm that produced the Trump dossier, in violation of FEC’s mandatory disclosure rules.

A watchdog group filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission last October alleging that the Clinton campaign attempted to hide payments related to the dossier. The law firm that facilitated the payments said that both the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee complied with the law.

Discussing the justification for investigating Comey, Tenney’s campaign writes that he “potentially broke the law when he chose not to seek charges against Clinton, leaked classified memos of his conversations to President Donald Trump to his friend Daniel Richman to give to the press, and blatantly lied to lawmakers."

While the classified status of many of Comey’s memos detailing his discussions with Trump remains in question, the one that was leaked to the media was unclassified.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekRepublican Congresswoman Claudia Tenney’s campaign sent out an email Tuesday calling on supporters to sign a petition to “lock up” former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and former FBI Director James Comey. Tenney was one of 11 Republican House members to sign a letter last week asking the Department of Justice and the FBI to open an investigation into Clinton, Comey and others related to their activities both during and since the 2016 election campaign.

Other individuals named by Tenney and the letter are former Attorney General Loretta Lynch, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, as well as FBI agent Peter Strzok and FBI lawyer Lisa Page. All have been frequent targets of President Donald Trump’s ire amid what he has slammed as an unfair focus on the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and possible collision with the Trump campaign.

But in an email that went out to supporters of her campaign for her re-election in New York, Tenney, in language at least, went a step further.

Trending: Final NFL Consensus Mock Draft Results: Who's Going Where?

“ADD YOUR NAME: Lock Them Up!” read a link calling on people to click to sign the petition. The URL for the petition web address also uses “lock them up.”

Rep. Claudia Tenney's campaign has released a petition email calling for the imprisonment of Comey, Clinton et. al. pic.twitter.com/qVwXGoqZQ3 — Nick Reisman (@NickReisman) April 24, 2018





Reached for comment, a spokesperson for the campaign said: "The email states that the individuals listed have been referred for criminal investigation. They should of course receive due process. Rep. Tenney's position is that no one is above the law."

Don't miss: Syria Chemical Attacks Are ‘Happening All the Time’ and Will Keep Happening, Says Journalist Who Exposed Assad Assaults

Still, the phrase used echoes back to one that became synonymous with Trump’s campaign. At Trump rallies across the country during his acrimonious battle with Clinton in 2016, chants of “lock her up” greeted the mention of his opponent’s name.

hillary clinton More

Nicholas Hunt/Getty Images

As recently as February, the chant was heard at the Conservative Political Action Conference when Clinton’s name was said on stage.

Most popular: What Is an 'Incel?' Violent Misogynist Subculture Referenced by Toronto Van Attack Suspect Explained

Of Clinton, the Tenney campaign email said that Clinton “potentially broke the law when disguising payments to Fusion GPS, the firm that produced the Trump dossier, in violation of FEC’s mandatory disclosure rules.

A watchdog group filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission last October alleging that the Clinton campaign attempted to hide payments related to the dossier. The law firm that facilitated the payments said that both the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee complied with the law.

Discussing the justification for investigating Comey, Tenney’s campaign writes that he “potentially broke the law when he chose not to seek charges against Clinton, leaked classified memos of his conversations to President Donald Trump to his friend Daniel Richman to give to the press, and blatantly lied to lawmakers."

While the classified status of many of Comey’s memos detailing his discussions with Trump remains in question, the one that was leaked to the media was unclassified.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekFILE - In a Monday, April 16, 2018, file photo, Michael Cohen, President Donald Trump's personal attorney, center, leaves federal court, in New York. Cohen filed papers in federal court in Los Angeles Wednesday, April 25, 2016, saying he will assert his Fifth Amendment rights, stating that he will exercise his constitutional right against self-incrimination in a lawsuit brought by porn actress Stormy Daniels, who said she had an affair with Trump. (AP Photo/Mary Altaffer, File)





LOS ANGELES (AP) -- President Donald Trump's personal attorney said Wednesday he will assert his constitutional right against self-incrimination in a civil case brought by a porn actress who said she had an affair with Trump.

Michael Cohen has been asking a federal judge in Los Angeles to delay Stormy Daniels' case after FBI agents raided his home and office earlier this month, seeking records about a nondisclosure agreement Daniels signed days before the 2016 presidential election.

Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, has said she had an affair with Trump in 2006 and has sued to invalidate the confidentiality agreement that prevents her discussing it. She's also suing Cohen, alleging defamation.

Cohen sought to delay the civil case 90 days after the raid, arguing that his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination may be jeopardized if legal proceedings aren't stayed.

But last week, U.S. District Judge S. James Otero said there were "gaping holes" in Cohen's request for a delay.

Cohen's lawyer argued in court last week that because the criminal investigation overlaps with issues in the lawsuit, his client's right against self-incrimination could be adversely impacted because he won't be able to respond and defend himself.

In a court filing on Wednesday, Cohen said that FBI agents had seized "various electronic devices and documents in my possession" which contain information about the $130,000 Daniels was paid as part of the agreement. Agents also seized communications with his lawyer, Brent Blakely, about the civil case, Cohen said.

Daniels has offered to return the $130,000 and argues the agreement is legally invalid because it was only signed by her and Cohen, not by Trump.

Cohen will assert his Fifth Amendment rights against self-incrimination "in connection with all proceedings in this case," he wrote.

Daniels' attorney, Michael Avenatti, said Cohen's filing was a "stunning development."

"Never before in our nation's history has the attorney for the sitting President invoked the 5th Amend in connection with issues surrounding the President," he tweeted.

Video: Trump Asked About Pardoning Cohen, Call It a 'Stupid Question'

Watch news, TV and more on Yahoo View.



___

Associated Press writer Jill Colvin in Washington contributed to this report.President Trump and first lady Melania Trump welcomed French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife, Brigitte, to the White House this week ahead of the formal state dinner planned for this evening.

Yesterday, the political families planted a tree together on the White House lawn, and today they stood together for the state arrival ceremony, with both President Trump and President Macron giving speeches.

The first lady, however, stole the show with her stunning outfit for the event. She wore an all-white Michael Kors suit with a matching wide-brimmed hat. The outfit was a big hit on social media.

But the hat became the center of attention for another reason: President Trump couldn’t maneuver his way around the brim to kiss his wife’s cheeks. As seen in the video below, he tries, hesitates, then settles for a fake kiss on either cheek.President Trump and first lady Melania Trump welcomed French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife, Brigitte, to the White House this week ahead of the formal state dinner planned for this evening.

Yesterday, the political families planted a tree together on the White House lawn, and today they stood together for the state arrival ceremony, with both President Trump and President Macron giving speeches.

The first lady, however, stole the show with her stunning outfit for the event. She wore an all-white Michael Kors suit with a matching wide-brimmed hat. The outfit was a big hit on social media.

But the hat became the center of attention for another reason: President Trump couldn’t maneuver his way around the brim to kiss his wife’s cheeks. As seen in the video below, he tries, hesitates, then settles for a fake kiss on either cheek.It will take months or years to tell if the tax cuts President Trump signed at the end of 2017 will boost economic growth or help create jobs, as intended. But little by little, we’re getting more evidence of what is likely to change under the new tax regime.

Some of the changes will be big. Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation has published new estimates of the ways people will file their taxes for 2018, the first year most of the new tax provisions will be in effect. Here are 3 big changes:

Far fewer people deducting state and local taxes. One of the most disruptive changes to the tax code is a new limit of $10,000 on the deductibility of state and local taxes, which used to be subject to no limit. The JCT estimates the number of people claiming the so-called SALT deduction will drop from 42.3 million for 2017 to 16.6 million for 2018—a 61% decline. For many filers, the new threshold for the SALT deduction means there will be no point itemizing, because their tax bill will end up lower using the standard deduction, which nearly doubled under the new law to $12,000 for individuals. About 7% of filers will end up with a higher tax bill under the new law, in large part because they have a large state and local tax bill and will lose more through the new SALT limit than other provisions of the bill will make up for.

Source: Joint Committee on Taxation More

Far fewer people deducting mortgage interest. The JCT predicts the number of taxpayers claiming a mortgage interest deduction will fall from 32.3 million for 2017 to 13.8 million for 2018—a 57% decline. The Trump tax cuts made only one significant change regarding mortgage interest, by lowering the maximum amount of deductible mortgage debt on a new loan from $1 million to $750,000. That affects very few home owners. But the new limit on the SALT deduction, along with the bigger standard deduction, will simply limit the benefits of itemizing for millions of taxpayers.

Overall, the JCT expects the number of taxpayers choosing to itemize, for any reason, to fall from 46.5 million for 2017 to 18 million for 2018 – a 61% drop. For many, that will make filing taxes simpler and cheaper.

There could be unintended consequences, however – changes in the deductibility of mortgage interest could affect home values, over time. The tax break for mortgage interest essentially makes owning a home cheaper, since borrowers earn something akin to a refund on a portion of the interest they pay. So if fewer people claim that deduction, the net cost of home ownership goes up. A lower tax bill, overall, might make it a wash for many home owners. But in some regions or parts of the market, the tax changes might also change the incentives for buying (or selling) a home.

A windfall for businesses. Big businesses known as C corporations will enjoy a 40% reduction in the corporate tax rate, from 35% to 21%. Yahoo Finance and many other news outlets have reported extensively on what big companies are likely to do with the tax savings, with many buying back shares or raising dividends. Some companies, such as Apple, have committed to new investments. And dozens of companies have given employees one-time bonuses.

The JCT research provides new insight on how the tax cuts will benefit smaller businesses. The effective tax rate for sole proprietorships—which account for about 73% of all businesses—will drop from 24.7% to 19.8%, according to the JCT. That’s a hefty 4.9 percentage points, a bigger decline than most individuals will see, since the effective tax rate for individuals is expected to fall from 29.1% in 2017 to 26.7% for 2018, or 2.4 percentage points.

Most privately owned businesses will benefit from the tax cuts, but those owned by the wealthy will benefit the most. The JCT found that 44% of the net benefit of a new tax break for privately owned businesses will accrue to individuals with incomes of $1 million or more, while just 7.5% of the net gain will accrue to individuals with incomes of $100,000 or less.It will take months or years to tell if the tax cuts President Trump signed at the end of 2017 will boost economic growth or help create jobs, as intended. But little by little, we’re getting more evidence of what is likely to change under the new tax regime.

Some of the changes will be big. Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation has published new estimates of the ways people will file their taxes for 2018, the first year most of the new tax provisions will be in effect. Here are 3 big changes:

Far fewer people deducting state and local taxes. One of the most disruptive changes to the tax code is a new limit of $10,000 on the deductibility of state and local taxes, which used to be subject to no limit. The JCT estimates the number of people claiming the so-called SALT deduction will drop from 42.3 million for 2017 to 16.6 million for 2018—a 61% decline. For many filers, the new threshold for the SALT deduction means there will be no point itemizing, because their tax bill will end up lower using the standard deduction, which nearly doubled under the new law to $12,000 for individuals. About 7% of filers will end up with a higher tax bill under the new law, in large part because they have a large state and local tax bill and will lose more through the new SALT limit than other provisions of the bill will make up for.

Source: Joint Committee on Taxation More

Far fewer people deducting mortgage interest. The JCT predicts the number of taxpayers claiming a mortgage interest deduction will fall from 32.3 million for 2017 to 13.8 million for 2018—a 57% decline. The Trump tax cuts made only one significant change regarding mortgage interest, by lowering the maximum amount of deductible mortgage debt on a new loan from $1 million to $750,000. That affects very few home owners. But the new limit on the SALT deduction, along with the bigger standard deduction, will simply limit the benefits of itemizing for millions of taxpayers.

Overall, the JCT expects the number of taxpayers choosing to itemize, for any reason, to fall from 46.5 million for 2017 to 18 million for 2018 – a 61% drop. For many, that will make filing taxes simpler and cheaper.

There could be unintended consequences, however – changes in the deductibility of mortgage interest could affect home values, over time. The tax break for mortgage interest essentially makes owning a home cheaper, since borrowers earn something akin to a refund on a portion of the interest they pay. So if fewer people claim that deduction, the net cost of home ownership goes up. A lower tax bill, overall, might make it a wash for many home owners. But in some regions or parts of the market, the tax changes might also change the incentives for buying (or selling) a home.

A windfall for businesses. Big businesses known as C corporations will enjoy a 40% reduction in the corporate tax rate, from 35% to 21%. Yahoo Finance and many other news outlets have reported extensively on what big companies are likely to do with the tax savings, with many buying back shares or raising dividends. Some companies, such as Apple, have committed to new investments. And dozens of companies have given employees one-time bonuses.

The JCT research provides new insight on how the tax cuts will benefit smaller businesses. The effective tax rate for sole proprietorships—which account for about 73% of all businesses—will drop from 24.7% to 19.8%, according to the JCT. That’s a hefty 4.9 percentage points, a bigger decline than most individuals will see, since the effective tax rate for individuals is expected to fall from 29.1% in 2017 to 26.7% for 2018, or 2.4 percentage points.

Most privately owned businesses will benefit from the tax cuts, but those owned by the wealthy will benefit the most. The JCT found that 44% of the net benefit of a new tax break for privately owned businesses will accrue to individuals with incomes of $1 million or more, while just 7.5% of the net gain will accrue to individuals with incomes of $100,000 or less.Updated | Hundreds of Central Americans determined to seek asylum in the U.S. have arrived in the Mexican border city of Tijuana, despite President Donald Trump's recent orders for the Department of Homeland Security to stop migrants entering the country.

Pueblo Sin Fronteras, the immigrant rights group that organized the caravan, posted a video to Facebook on Tuesday evening of people arriving at a shelter run by Juventud 2000. Juventud 2000 is an organization dedicated to assisting migrants in Tjuana. They wrote that this was the "first big part of [the] refugee caravan" to arrive in the border town.

As many as 600 asylum seekers have already made their way to the shelter, traveling by bus, according to Reuters. The news agency said another four buses were also making their way to Tijuana from Hermosillo, a city 432 miles south of the border, where migrants had been held up for days.

Trending: ‘PUBG’ Miramar Test Server Update Live on Xbox One - Patch Notes & Fixes





Smaller groups of people traveling with the caravan had already made it to the U.S.-Mexico border earlier this week, with organizers telling Newsweek some had been turned away by border officials after trying to request asylum.

Trump said on Monday morning that he had directed Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen to block as many as 50 asylum seekers from entering the country, calling the caravan a "disgrace."

GettyImages-944873746 More

ALFREDO ESTRELLA/AFP/Getty

The caravan began its journey towards the U.S. border from southern Mexico in late March, with the group growing to include as many as 1,500 people at one point, before its numbers started to dwindle after Trump vowed to take action and pushed Mexican migration authorities to crack down on the group.

Despite gaining international attention this year, the caravan is something that happens annually as a symbolic event to raise awareness around the plight of asylum seekers.

Don't miss: Kate Middleton's Luxury Birth Was Cheaper Than the Average Delivery in the U.S.

Read more: Trump Brands Migrant Caravan a ‘Disgrace,’ Orders Homeland Security Officials to Turn Away Immigrants at Border

In previous years, participants have for the most part held marches in Mexico, rather than making the journey all the way to the U.S. border. This year, however, a large number were desperate to make it to the U.S., with many asylum seekers coming from Honduras in a bid to flee the instability and violence that has followed the contested reelection of President Juan Orlando Hernández.

While members of the caravan have arrived in Tijuana, they are not expected to make it to the U.S.-Mexico border for several days, according to CNN.

It is expected that at least some asylum seekers will arrive at the border on Sunday, with local communities on the U.S. side of the border organizing to meet at Border Field State Mark early that morning.

"We will have a friendly encounter at the border and exchange welcoming words of solidarity and hope," community organizers have said on a Facebook event page called "Welcome the Refugee Caravan."

Read more: Migrant Caravan Asylum Seekers Being 'Illegally' Turned Away at Border, Rights Group Say

Most popular: GOP Senate Candidate Calls Mitch McConnell's Father-in-Law 'Wealthy Chinaperson,' Refuses to File Financial Disclosures

Community members have been asked to wear white and will be joined by people who have been marching from Los Angeles to the U.S.-Mexico border since last Sunday, in a show of solidarity with those traveling with the caravan.Updated | Hundreds of Central Americans determined to seek asylum in the U.S. have arrived in the Mexican border city of Tijuana, despite President Donald Trump's recent orders for the Department of Homeland Security to stop migrants entering the country.

Pueblo Sin Fronteras, the immigrant rights group that organized the caravan, posted a video to Facebook on Tuesday evening of people arriving at a shelter run by Juventud 2000. Juventud 2000 is an organization dedicated to assisting migrants in Tjuana. They wrote that this was the "first big part of [the] refugee caravan" to arrive in the border town.

As many as 600 asylum seekers have already made their way to the shelter, traveling by bus, according to Reuters. The news agency said another four buses were also making their way to Tijuana from Hermosillo, a city 432 miles south of the border, where migrants had been held up for days.

Trending: ‘PUBG’ Miramar Test Server Update Live on Xbox One - Patch Notes & Fixes





Smaller groups of people traveling with the caravan had already made it to the U.S.-Mexico border earlier this week, with organizers telling Newsweek some had been turned away by border officials after trying to request asylum.

Trump said on Monday morning that he had directed Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen to block as many as 50 asylum seekers from entering the country, calling the caravan a "disgrace."

GettyImages-944873746 More

ALFREDO ESTRELLA/AFP/Getty

The caravan began its journey towards the U.S. border from southern Mexico in late March, with the group growing to include as many as 1,500 people at one point, before its numbers started to dwindle after Trump vowed to take action and pushed Mexican migration authorities to crack down on the group.

Despite gaining international attention this year, the caravan is something that happens annually as a symbolic event to raise awareness around the plight of asylum seekers.

Don't miss: Kate Middleton's Luxury Birth Was Cheaper Than the Average Delivery in the U.S.

Read more: Trump Brands Migrant Caravan a ‘Disgrace,’ Orders Homeland Security Officials to Turn Away Immigrants at Border

In previous years, participants have for the most part held marches in Mexico, rather than making the journey all the way to the U.S. border. This year, however, a large number were desperate to make it to the U.S., with many asylum seekers coming from Honduras in a bid to flee the instability and violence that has followed the contested reelection of President Juan Orlando Hernández.

While members of the caravan have arrived in Tijuana, they are not expected to make it to the U.S.-Mexico border for several days, according to CNN.

It is expected that at least some asylum seekers will arrive at the border on Sunday, with local communities on the U.S. side of the border organizing to meet at Border Field State Mark early that morning.

"We will have a friendly encounter at the border and exchange welcoming words of solidarity and hope," community organizers have said on a Facebook event page called "Welcome the Refugee Caravan."

Read more: Migrant Caravan Asylum Seekers Being 'Illegally' Turned Away at Border, Rights Group Say

Most popular: GOP Senate Candidate Calls Mitch McConnell's Father-in-Law 'Wealthy Chinaperson,' Refuses to File Financial Disclosures

Community members have been asked to wear white and will be joined by people who have been marching from Los Angeles to the U.S.-Mexico border since last Sunday, in a show of solidarity with those traveling with the caravan.PresidentDonald Trump twice gaveJames Comey an alibi for why a salacious report about the 2013 Miss Universe pageant in Moscow couldn’t be true: He never even spent the night in Russia during that trip, Trump told the former FBI director, according to Comey’s memos about the conversations.2

Yet the broad timeline of Trump’s stay, stretching from Friday, Nov. 8, 2013, through the following Sunday morning, has been widely reported. And it’s substantiated by social media posts that show he slept in Moscow the night before the Miss Universe contest.

More from Bloomberg.com: U.S. Hints at China Truce as World Warns of Trade-War Threat

Now, flight records obtained by Bloomberg provide fresh details. Combined with existing accounts and Trump’s own social-media posts, they capture two days that, nearly five years later, loom large in the controversy engulfing the White House and at the heart of the Comey memos, which the Justice Department turned over last week to Congress.

Neither the White House nor Trump Organization immediately responded to requests for comment.

According to Comey’s accounts of his 2017 meetings with the president, Trump said the Moscow trip was so quick that his head never hit a pillow -- even for one night. Trump fired Comey on May 9, 2017.

The first denial came over dinner at the White House in late January 2017. “He said he arrived in the morning, did events, then showered and dressed for the pageant at the hotel," and then left for the event, Comey wrote. “Afterwards, he returned only to get his things because they departed for New York by plane that same night."

More from Bloomberg.com: The Man Who Brought Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un to the Table

On the second occasion in February 2017, Trump “explained, as he did at our dinner, that he hadn’t stayed overnight in Russia during the Miss Universe trip," Comey wrote.

Read more about Trump’s Moscow visit

A reconstruction of events shows the future U.S. president’s journey to Moscow began in North Carolina, where he attended a birthday tribute to evangelist Billy Graham on Thursday, Nov. 7, 2013. While flight records show Trump’s own Cessna jet headed back to New York that night from Asheville, North Carolina, Trump himself apparently wasn’t aboard.

Instead, Trump flew to Moscow on a Bombardier Global 5000 private jet owned byPhil Ruffin, his partner in the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Las Vegas, the New York Times reported in January 2017. Trump’s use of Ruffin’s jet is also reported in the newly published book, “Russian Roulette: The Inside Story of Putin’s War on America and the Election of Donald Trump," by Michael Isikoff and David Corn.

More from Bloomberg.com: Pompeo Poised to Win Confirmation Even If Panel Votes Him Down

The jet -- tail number N443PR -- had flown from Las Vegas to Asheville on Nov. 6, according to the flight records that Bloomberg purchased from FlightAware, an aviation data company. The flight records don’t say who was aboard the jet, which took off from Asheville at 9:15 p.m. on Thursday, Nov. 7, bound for Moscow’s Vnukovo International Airport.

At the Ritz

The Bombardier jet landed in Moscow on Friday, Nov. 8, at a time unspecified in the records. From Vnukovo airport, it’s less than an hour’s drive to the Ritz-Carlton hotel, where Trump stayed, according to the pageant’s host, developer Aras Agalarov.

Trump surfaced online later that day in a Facebook post by the restaurant Nobu Moscow. That night he attended a birthday party for Agalarov.

The next day, Saturday, Nov. 9, Facebook posts showed Trump at the Ritz during the day, and in the afternoon he tweeted that he’d gotten a tour of Moscow. That evening, he attended the Miss Universe pageant, followed by an after-party whose scheduled start time was 1 a.m. -- by that time, Sunday, Nov. 10.

At this point, the flight records support a narrow slice of what Trump told Comey: On the night of the pageant itself, the plane Trump was said to be using didn’t fully overnight in Russia. Ruffin’s Bombardier took off from Vnukovo airport at 3:58 a.m. Moscow time, the records show.

When the jet touched down at Newark Liberty International Airport, just outside New York City, it was still Sunday morning -- 4:11 a.m. local time. That evening, Trump tweeted about his return, “I just got back from Russia-learned lots & lots. Moscow is a very interesting and amazing place!"

Corrects 3rd and 11th paragraphs to reflect that flight data firm erroneously provided time of landing in Moscow that was same as departure from North Carolina.

Video: Flight Records Prove Trump Did Stay Overnight in Moscow

For more news videos visit Yahoo View.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Flight Records Unfold Mystery of Trump's Moscow Nights on bloombergpolitics.comIt will take months or years to tell if the tax cuts President Trump signed at the end of 2017 will boost economic growth or help create jobs, as intended. But little by little, we’re getting more evidence of what is likely to change under the new tax regime.

Some of the changes will be big. Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation has published new estimates of the ways people will file their taxes for 2018, the first year most of the new tax provisions will be in effect. Here are 3 big changes:

Far fewer people deducting state and local taxes. One of the most disruptive changes to the tax code is a new limit of $10,000 on the deductibility of state and local taxes, which used to be subject to no limit. The JCT estimates the number of people claiming the so-called SALT deduction will drop from 42.3 million for 2017 to 16.6 million for 2018—a 61% decline. For many filers, the new threshold for the SALT deduction means there will be no point itemizing, because their tax bill will end up lower using the standard deduction, which nearly doubled under the new law to $12,000 for individuals. About 7% of filers will end up with a higher tax bill under the new law, in large part because they have a large state and local tax bill and will lose more through the new SALT limit than other provisions of the bill will make up for.

Source: Joint Committee on Taxation More

Far fewer people deducting mortgage interest. The JCT predicts the number of taxpayers claiming a mortgage interest deduction will fall from 32.3 million for 2017 to 13.8 million for 2018—a 57% decline. The Trump tax cuts made only one significant change regarding mortgage interest, by lowering the maximum amount of deductible mortgage debt on a new loan from $1 million to $750,000. That affects very few home owners. But the new limit on the SALT deduction, along with the bigger standard deduction, will simply limit the benefits of itemizing for millions of taxpayers.

Overall, the JCT expects the number of taxpayers choosing to itemize, for any reason, to fall from 46.5 million for 2017 to 18 million for 2018 – a 61% drop. For many, that will make filing taxes simpler and cheaper.

There could be unintended consequences, however – changes in the deductibility of mortgage interest could affect home values, over time. The tax break for mortgage interest essentially makes owning a home cheaper, since borrowers earn something akin to a refund on a portion of the interest they pay. So if fewer people claim that deduction, the net cost of home ownership goes up. A lower tax bill, overall, might make it a wash for many home owners. But in some regions or parts of the market, the tax changes might also change the incentives for buying (or selling) a home.

A windfall for businesses. Big businesses known as C corporations will enjoy a 40% reduction in the corporate tax rate, from 35% to 21%. Yahoo Finance and many other news outlets have reported extensively on what big companies are likely to do with the tax savings, with many buying back shares or raising dividends. Some companies, such as Apple, have committed to new investments. And dozens of companies have given employees one-time bonuses.

The JCT research provides new insight on how the tax cuts will benefit smaller businesses. The effective tax rate for sole proprietorships—which account for about 73% of all businesses—will drop from 24.7% to 19.8%, according to the JCT. That’s a hefty 4.9 percentage points, a bigger decline than most individuals will see, since the effective tax rate for individuals is expected to fall from 29.1% in 2017 to 26.7% for 2018, or 2.4 percentage points.

Most privately owned businesses will benefit from the tax cuts, but those owned by the wealthy will benefit the most. The JCT found that 44% of the net benefit of a new tax break for privately owned businesses will accrue to individuals with incomes of $1 million or more, while just 7.5% of the net gain will accrue to individuals with incomes of $100,000 or less.Outer space, to many of us, is about having a hopeful plan B — a place that can save us from world war or an epidemic or environmental disaster. But that might not be the best way to think about it. Instead, says Sheyna Gifford, a space physician who spent a full year on a simulated mission to Mars, learning how to get to another planet may be a means and not an end.

“The question nobody asks is what happens if we don’t become an interplanetary species?” Gifford asks in an episode of the new short-documentary series Beyond the Horizon directed by Jared Leto, which began its second season last week on Yahoo, Tumblr, HuffPo, AOL, go90, and Yahoo View . “Mars will never be a backup of Earth. … But if we can make it there, then we can make it here. Because we can’t get there as single countries believing only what we want to believe, and people who only get along on certain terms when we feel like it. We are going to have to get beyond ourselves to make that work. And when we do that, I don’t see why we have to stop at Mars. We can go anywhere.”

Story Continues

Such lofty goals begin to sound plausible when you listen to the clear, calm thoughts of Gifford, a St. Louis-based resident physician and aerospace educator in the U.S. civil air patrol who, in 2015, served as the chief medical and safety officer during the year-long fourth mission of the HI-SEAS study. That’s when she, as part of a four-person research crew, spent a year living inside a 1,200-foot geodesic dome up on the slopes of Hawaii’s Mauna Loa volcano, an expanse of land that’s geographically similar to the surface of Mars.

For that year in the dome, during which they researched what would be required for people actually to live on Mars, the scientist was allowed only limited contact with the outside world, via texting and emailing that was time-lagged to approximate speed-of-light delays — but “since you’re pretty darn busy trying to grow food, conserve water and power, exercise, and explore space, there is not a lot of spare time to send emails back home,” she says. She was permitted to travel only about a mile away from the base, all while wearing a simulated spacesuit.

“I did not feel constrained by it at all,” Gifford (who is about to be featured in another documentary series, James Cameron’s Story of Science Fiction on AMC) tells Yahoo Lifestyle, explaining that the parameters really helped her to stay in the moment. “Within a few hundred meters around the dome, there was a surprising amount to do and see: old, frozen lava flowing into strange formations, deep caverns, and tall ridges. Inside the dome itself, there were constantly things going on — science projects, music, drone flying, 3-D printing, strange engineering, and even stranger cooking experiments. At night, if you walked outside in your spacesuit to watch the arm of the Milky Way rise, you felt like you could be anywhere, on almost any planet in our part of the galaxy.”

Gifford with Jared Leto, director of Beyond the Horizon. (Photo: Ryot) More

In Beyond the Horizon, Gifford notes that as humans, we tend to think “there’s always more people, there’s always more air, there’s always more food, but there isn’t. And in space you realize that.”

She elaborates for Yahoo Lifestyle, adding, “The explorers pushing the new horizon face very different challenges from the explorers of old. Don’t get me wrong — things got pretty hairy at times for the folks who spread across the face of this world. Supplies like food, water, and heat ran low all the time. But no matter how bad things were for them, the explorers of old didn’t have to worry about running out of air. … They knew that at some point they had a good chance of finding the resources they needed to survive.” Space, however, “gives us no such kind assurances. … Every resource you will ever need has to be brought with you, sent ahead, or discovered at your very, very, very far-off destination.”

Based on Gifford’s experience on the mission, humans are not quite ready to dive in to a long space mission, since we don’t know how to “predict and plan for everything we’re going to need to survive a journey like that in advance. We don’t yet know how to explore an environment devoid of resources for an extensive period of time without running out of the things we need to keep ourselves alive.” But, she adds, “We’re figuring it out.”

At various times during the one-year mission, food, water, and power ran short. “In November, around the time that Andy Weir’s The Martian was hitting movie theaters, one of our food resupply robots failed. At the same time, bad weather — on [real] Mars, it would be dust storms — prevented our solar panel system from producing much power. It was a very cold and rather dismal Thanksgiving on simulated Mars. Later in the mission, water resupply robots failed, and the water circulation system itself broke down. At every step, we improvised.”

Gifford has been interested in space since childhood, and one of her earliest memories involves her father showing her photos from the 1976 landing of an American spacecraft on Mars. “I remember being confused, because Mars didn’t look all that welcoming — but at the same time, I wanted to go there really badly. Being human is strange like that.”

She now focuses much of her energy on supporting young girls who are interested in STEM fields. Through her work as an air-patrol educator, she’s able to provide, at no cost, learning kits for robotics, telescopes, gliders, and books about science, engineering, mathematics, or aerospace to any schoolteacher or homeschool teacher who asks. “I also have a few STEM mentees of my own. They are remarkable people,” she says. “The two young women, one of whom is in college and the other of whom will be shortly, are going to make the things I’ve achieved look like small beans before this decade is out.” She also keeps “an open door to the young kids in my neighborhood,” and she spends time with them planting in her local community garden, with the aim of showing them how they can help grow the world, both actually and metaphorically.

Her space goal, meanwhile, is “to ensure that humanity has the power to leave this planet at will and to keep going, and going, for as long and as far as we possibly can.” In addition, she says, she wants to help everyone find a way to stay healthy, fed, clothed, and educated while doing it. “Also,” Gifford adds, “I would like to fall asleep in zero gravity at least one time before I die. That would be a bonus.”

Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle:

Follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.With the pivotal Game 5 of the first-round series between the Cleveland Cavaliers and Indiana Pacers hanging in the balance in the closing seconds, LeBron James did what he’s been doing for 15 years: took over, saved the day, and delivered his team a desperately needed victory.

James hit a buzzer-beating, game-winning 3-pointer over the outstretched arms of Thaddeus Young, providing a thrilling ending to a heartstopping fourth quarter and giving the Cavaliers a 98-95 win over the visiting Pacers to take their first lead in the best-of-seven series at 3-2. The Cavs will now look to close out the stunned Pacers back in Indianapolis in Game 6 on Friday night.

Asked by TNT’s Allie LaForce what he told his teammates in the huddle before the Cavs’ final possession, James recalled a simple message.

“Just give me the ball,” he said. “Give me the ball. They had a foul to give, so I wanted to go quick so they couldn’t give up that foul, because we had no more timeouts. So I was able to turn and get to my spot.”

Cleveland Cavaliers’ LeBron James, right, celebrates with Cedi Osman, from Turkey, after James shot a game-winning three point shot in the second half of Game 5 of an NBA basketball first-round playoff series, Wednesday, April 25, 2018, in Cleveland. The Cavaliers won 98-95. (AP Photo/Tony Dejak)

If the sequence felt familiar to you … well, you’re not alone.

“It was like deja vu for a regular-season game we had versus Minnesota, where I got a block on the other end and then the game-winner,” James said.

Then again, maybe you’re thinking of that time James did nearly this exact same thing in the playoffs, just about nine years ago.

LeBron Game 5 vs. Indiana, 2018

vs.

LeBron Game 2 vs. Orlando, 2009 pic.twitter.com/ygP4zqTMNf — LeRob Perez (@World_Wide_Wob) April 26, 2018





The silver lining, Pacers fans: LeBron’s Cavs lost that series to the Orlando Magic in six games. (Then again, they weren’t one win away from closing out at the time.)

Story Continues

The Cavs were in position to win it on that final-second shot because of James, too. On the previous Pacers trip, James took the defensive assignment on Victor Oladipo, knowing Indiana’s All-Star would have the ball in his hands in a game tied at 95. Oladipo drove on James, using a lefty in-and-out dribble to get James leaning the wrong way before bursting into the lane and, with half a step on LeBron, elevating for a layup to give the Pacers the lead.

As it turned out, half a step wasn’t enough:

Unless, of course, it was, because it sure looked like Oladipo might have gotten the ball onto the glass before LeBron swatted it, which would’ve made it a goaltend and two points for the Pacers:





LeBron: "I definitely thought it was a goaltend. Of course." — Brian Windhorst (@WindhorstESPN) April 26, 2018





If nothing else, it would seem to be close enough — in the closing seconds of a tied game in a tied playoff series — to get the refs to review the play. And yet, despite the league’s replay rules allowing referees to review “situations in which they are not reasonably certain whether a goaltending or basket interference violation was called correctly during the last two minutes of the fourth period and during all of overtime,” that didn’t happen here because goaltending wasn’t called on the floor in the moment. So: block stands, Cavs ball. (The MilwaukeeBucks feel your pain, Victor.)

Then again, maybe this was some cosmic “ball don’t lie” by the basketball gods after the way the Pacers got possession on the previous play.

With the score tied at 95 and 33 seconds to go, LeBron went to work in pursuit of a go-ahead bucket. He drove on Young, but the veteran power forward muscled him up along the baseline, forcing James to pick up his dribble under the basket. As LeBron tried to pass to the far corner, Young swiped down and knocked the ball loose; it bounced up and hit James on the arm before going out of bounds, a costly turnover that gave the Pacers the ball back with 26.3 seconds to go and a chance to go for the win.

Except the ball didn’t hit LeBron before it went out of bounds, because it went out of bounds after Young jarred it loose:

It ended up not mattering – but Thad Young clearly knocked the ball out of bounds before it went off LeBron in the Cavs final possession before LeBron’s game-winner.

Shocking it wasn’t reviewed pic.twitter.com/IKc5gh8bEy — Tommy Beer (@TommyBeer) April 26, 2018





That play could have been reviewed, according to the review rules, since it was a “called out-of-bounds play […] involving doubt as to which player caused the ball to go out.” But the refs didn’t review it, so the turnover stood and the Pacers got the ball.

Whether or not you think those two missed calls cancel out probably depends on which team you’d prefer to see win this series. Either way, James rendered the argument moot with a bit of last-second magic for his first postseason buzzer-beater since 2015 in Chicago.

It was a brilliant end to another brilliant evening for James, who’s been essentially the only reliable source of offense Cleveland’s been able to muster in this series. He lived at the rim all night long, bulldozing his way to the paint time and again en route to 44 points on 14-for-24 shooting from the field and a perfect 15-for-15 mark at the foul line, to go with 10 rebounds, eight assists, a block and a steal in 42 minutes of work.

Veteran sniper Kyle Korver continued to be James’ primary running buddy, scoring 19 points on 6-for-11 shooting (5-for-9 from 3-point range) with six rebounds in the win, which saw the Cavs prevail despite shooting just 41.3 percent from the field as a team.

As has been the case throughout the series, that the Cavs needed this kind of performance and this kind of late-game heroism from James this early in the postseason doesn’t seem to bode well for Cleveland’s chances of making a fourth straight NBA Finals. Still, this result’s a hell of a lot better than the alternative, and with the East feeling as shaky and open as it’s been in years, being the only team that employs LeBron Freaking James still just might give you a leg up on everyone else.

More NBA coverage:

– – – – – – –

Dan Devine is a writer and editor for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at devine@oath.com or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

• LaVar Ball predictably pulls sons off Lithuanian squad

• Audio of ‘confidential’ NFL players-owners meeting leaks

• Browns now rumored to take Baker Mayfield or Josh Allen at No. 1

• Pitcher making unlikely comeback after 3 Tommy John surgeries

Danish inventor Peter Madsen was found guilty and sentenced to life in prison today for killing and sexually abusing Swedish journalist Kim Wall.

Wall, 30, had disappeared in mid-August 2017 after boarding Madsen's submarine while researching a story. Her remains were later found in plastic bags in the Bay of Koge, southwest of Copenhagen, but authorities have been unable to establish a specific cause of death.

Madsen "brought a saw, knife, sharpened screwdrivers, straps, strips and pipes" aboard his submarine as part of a plan to kill Wall, the prosecutor has said.

PHOTO: A courtroom sketch shows Peter Madsen during the trial regarding the killing of Swedish journalist Kim Wall in Copenhagen, Denmark, April 25, 2018. (Anne Gyrithe Sch'tt/Ritzau Scanpix via AP) More

The main charges against Madsen, 47, were murder, indecent handling of a corpse and "sexual relations other than intercourse of a particularly dangerous nature." He was found guilty of all three. The prosecutor had asked for a life sentence for Madsen.

People who receive a life sentence in Denmark spend 16 years in prison on average. A life sentence is the harshest penalty in Denmark and is normally reserved for people convicted of more than one murder.

"In determining the punishment, the court emphasized that it was a cynical and planned sexual assault and killing of a very brutal character on a random woman who, in connection with her journalistic work, had accepted an offer of a trip in the defendant's submarine," the City Court of Copenhagen said in a statement in Danish released after the verdict.

Madsen plans to appeal the verdict, defense attorney Betina Hald Engmark told reporters today. Prosecutor Jakob Buch-Jepsen said he is satisfied with the verdict.

"I think it was crucial to the court that it was a premeditated murder and that there are sexual violations of serious character," he told reporters.

When asked what it was like to work on a case of this nature, Buch-Jepsen said it has affected him more than others.

"I am not made of steel so, of course, this case affects me on a personal level, but I have a professional role I need to carry out," he said. "But there's no doubt that after going home from work, this case has gotten under my skin more than other cases."

PHOTO: Press gather outside of the courthouse for the verdict in the case of Peter Madsen, in Copenhagen, April 25, 2018. (Mads Claus Rasmussen /Ritzau Scanpix via AP) More

PHOTO: This file photo taken on Aug. 13, 2017 shows police technicians investigating the rescued private owned submarine UC3 Nautilus, in Copenhagen Habour. (Jens Noergaard Larse/AFP/Getty Images, FILE) More

Journalist who died on submarine texted 'I'm still alive' day she disappeared

As Kim Wall's murder trial begins, friends seeking 'justice' hope her legacy empowers women journalists

Submarine inventor accused of killing journalist Kim Wall says he dismembered her body, police say

Madsen, who has offered shifting explanations about what happened on the submarine, had denied abusing and killing Wall, but admitted dismembering her body and pleaded guilty to the indecent handling of a corpse charge. His defense lawyer had said he should only be found guilty of indecent handling of a corpse, which carries a jail term of up to six months in Denmark. She said the prosecutor hasn't proved Madsen murdered Wall.

Wall graduated with a bachelor's degree in international relations from the London School of Economics and Political Science. She then obtained a dual master's degree in journalism and international relations from Columbia University in New York City.

PHOTO: Kim Wall, left, and Justin Chan are seen in this undated photo in New York, New York. (Justin Chan) More

Story ContinuesAfter Patton Oswalt’s wife, writer Michelle McNamara, died in her sleep in 2016, he spent the better part of two years helping to finish her final book, I’ll Be Gone in the Dark. The book, which has been on the New York Times bestsellers list since it was released in February, traced the so-called Golden State Killer, who is suspected of 12 killings, 45 rapes, and dozens of home burglaries between 1976 and 1986.

On Wednesday, officials from Northern and Southern California announced that they had arrested Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, and that he’s being held on suspicion on at least four counts of murder. They noted the usefulness of both DNA evidence and the public’s unrelenting interest in the case for helping them to solve it.

Oswalt didn’t hold back his excitement, even before the scheduled news conference to make the announcement. “I think you got him, Michelle,” he said proudly on Twitter.

During that press conference, a reporter asked Sacramento County Sheriff Scott Jones whether McNamara’s book had affected the case. Jones said it had not.

“I’m glad you asked that question, because it’s a question we’ve gotten from literally all over the world in the last 24 hours,” Jones said, “and the answer is no, other than the fact that it, like the media, kept this in the public eye, kept public interest. It kept interest and tips coming in. Other than that, there was no information extracted from that book that directly led to the apprehension.”

Oswalt, who live-tweeted the news conference, was quick to comment.

It did, but #MichelleMcNamaradidn’t care about getting any shine on herself. She cared about the #GoldenStateKiller being behind bars and the victims getting some relief. She was Marge Gunderson in FARGO, not Chilton in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. https://t.co/krMOWaWh9m — Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) April 25, 2018

Also, the cops will NEVER and HAVE NEVER credited a writer or journalist for helping them solve a case. But every time they said #GoldenStateKiller they credited the work of #MichelleMcNamara and #IllBeGoneInTheDark. — Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) April 25, 2018

Oswalt married McNamara in 2005, and their daughter, Alice, was born four years later. McNamara, who had worked on her book throughout their marriage, died on April 21, 2016, of what was determined to be a previously unknown condition and a combination of prescription drugs. She was 46.

Patton Oswalt and Michelle McNamara make an appearance on Nov. 5, 2011, in Los Angeles. (Photo: John Shearer/Getty Images for LACMA) MoreThe former girlfriend of San Francisco 49ers linebacker Reuben Foster said in a statement that she can prove Foster did not cause her injuries from an alleged incident in February.

Foster was accused of dragging his girlfriend and punching her in the head at their home in Los Gatos, California, leaving her bruised and with a ruptured eardrum. He was charged with felony domestic violence and attempting to prevent a victim from reporting a crime.

The former girlfriend released a statement through her attorney Wednesday where she said she can prove that Foster was not responsible for her injuries.

Reuben Foster’s girlfriend has recanted her initial domestic violence claim, and said that she can prove the 49ers linebacker didn’t injure her. (Getty Images)

“[Foster] did not strike her, injure her or threaten her,” Stephanie Rickard, the former girlfriend’s attorney, said in the statement.

“She was extremely upset and told him if he broke up with her she would ‘trash his career.'”

The injuries, Rickard said, were the result of a fight with another woman, and that there is video of that confrontation. Rickard also said that the former girlfriend told prosecutors in the case that she wanted to recant her initial statement, but the district attorney’s office still filed the charges. She initially told investigators at the scene that Foster hit her eight to 10 times in the head.

Niners general manager John Lynch said Monday that if the charges are proven true that the linebacker would be cut from the team.

“I want to be very clear, abundantly clear, that if these charges are proven true, if Reuben did indeed hit this young lady, he won’t be a part of our organization going forward,” Lynch said. “That’s the standard we want on our team, that’s the standard we’re going to operate under.”

Foster, a first-round pick in the 2017 NFL draft, had a solid rookie campaign last season. He finished second on the team with 72 tackles in 10 games.

Story Continues

Foster is scheduled to appear in court Monday morning.

More from Yahoo Sports:

• LaVar Ball predictably pulls sons off Lithuanian squad

• Audio of ‘confidential’ NFL players-owners meeting leaks

• Browns now rumored to take Baker Mayfield or Josh Allen at No. 1

• Pitcher making unlikely comeback after 3 Tommy John surgeries

Kanye West is showing off his and Kim Kardashian West‘s Hidden Hills, California, mansion on Twitter, despite the couple having agreed to keep the house, which they purchased for a reported $20 million in 2014, out of the public eye.

The rapper-producer shared three photos showing the interiors of the home that he and Kardashian West moved into in December following an extensive renovation. Kris Jenner tweeted on Wednesday that the house is now worth $60 million.

RELATED: Kim Kardashian and Kanye West Move Into Unfinished L.A. Mansion Before the Arrival of Baby No. 3

“Do this look like the sunken place,” West captioned a photo of the stark white interiors, making reference to the 2017 horror movie Get Out.

The Oscar-winning film’s writer-director, Jordan Peele, explained the phrase on Twitter after the film’s release, writing, “We’re all in the sunken place,” and then, “The Sunken Place means we’re marginalized. No matter how hard we scream, the system silences us.”

do this look like the sunken place ???? pic.twitter.com/ixzKnaaaSy — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

more tweets from the sunken place ???? pic.twitter.com/nJQdQ2aVKn — KANYE WEST (@kanyewest) April 25, 2018

Kardashian West replied to her husband’s posts on Twitter writing, “Ummm babe. We had a rule to not show our home on social media! Soooo can we now allow KUWTK filming in the home?” She added a crying laughing emoji. She later tweeted again to clarify that her earlier message was meant to be a joke, and that she was not scolding her husband.

“Oh RELAX I’m joking! Seriously you can’t have a personality on social media these days or your called bizarre or disturbing,” she wrote.

Ummm babe. We had a rule to not show our home on social media! Soooo can we now allow KUWTK filming in the home? ???????? https://t.co/bUMAn29K5K — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) April 25, 2018

The Kardashian-West family’s home, which was designed by the couple in collaboration with Belgian architect Axel Vervoordt, features a restrained palette, almost church-like architecture, and minimal furnishings. Outside, the estate boasts 3.5 acres, two swimming pools, two spas and its own vineyard.

“We decided we wanted a house that didn’t need baby proofing,” Kardashian West told archdigest.com of the interiors’ smooth surfaces. She does however, have a difficult time keeping the all white-furniture clean with three children — North, 4, Saint, 2, and Chicago, 3 months — in the house.

“Oh my God. I run around the house with towels,” she said. “You just have to take a deep breath and say, ‘Ok, it’s going to happen. We decided to have light colors.'”

The couple recently sold their previous house, a Bel Air mansion they renovated for several years but never moved into, for $18 million.

West’s photo posts come amid a flood of tweets from the rapper, who had been silent on the social media platform for months until this week. The rapper announced he’d fired his management and multiple sources tell PEOPLE he’s cut off communication with his inner circle and has had multiple arguments with his mother-in-law, Kris Jenner.

RELATED: Kim Kardashian West Gave the New Owner of Her $18 Million Estate a ‘Personal Tour’ of the House

Wednesday morning, he posted about spending time with his daughter, North, the success of his Yeezy clothing line and his feelings about politics.

Another insider said that West’s behavior is “very hard to deal with” and “he‘s all over the place,” adding, “If you can’t be part of his creative genius, he’ll cut you loose. That’s what he says.”Any time the notoriously private Kanye West returns to social media, it’s an event. So when Kanye returned to Twitter on April 13th, fans were intrigued…especially because he also announced he’s releasing not one, but two new albums in June.At 5:45 p.m. on Tuesday, People published a story with the headline "Kanye West Has Had 'Explosive' Fights with Kris Jenner & Kim Kardashian Can't 'Control' Him," stemming from what the outlet called "exclusive" "multiple sources." From there came all the dramatic details you would expect—along with a brief mention that a rep for the Kardashians and Jenners didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

Unsurprisingly, though, it took less than two hours for Kris Jenner to remind People—and the public—that she's never not on guard. At 7:42 p.m., she took things into her own hands by retweeting the story to her nearly 10 million followers, saying it was "Lies,Lies,Lies." The next time around, she was even quicker: When People's Twitter account shared the story again, at 9:02 p.m., it took her only 52 minutes to respond. ("Nope...not true!")

To her point, some parts of the story are immediately questionable; it cites West's tweet about "get[ting] rid of everything" as one of those that have been "increasingly worrisome to some of his loved ones," and Kim Kardashian's tweet in response—"Wait...EVERYTHING?!?!?!"—as apparent evidence, without mentioning the fact that Kim immediately and directly clarified that the comment didn't remotely come from a place of concern. ("For anyone who has absolutely no humor in their soul please know my tweets are a joke and I will die laughing if I see blogs and media really think I am being serious. So don’t even try it," she posted less than an hour later.)

While the story later describes the same tweet as Kim "playfully respond[ing] to her husband," it does so only when upping the drama to quote a source making the case that that was, in fact, her attempt to take charge. ("She’s trying her best to support him on social media and show a different side of things, but it’s just not working.") According to another source, attempts to tone Kanye down haven't been working for Jenner either: "He’s had huge blow-ups with Kris. She sees how erratic he’s acting and is most concerned about her daughter’s brand. She’s also trying to be a good mother-in-law, so he’s having explosive issues with her too," a "source close to the situation" shared.

"Everyone is really, really worried," the source continued, though another one goes on to contradict that statement, pointing out that West has always been "eccentric and erratic." ("A lot of this is just Kanye. He’s always been like that. He stirs the pot.")

It was only a matter of time before West, who's lately been on an oversharing tear, addressed the matter himself. Sure, he proved that at least one of the sources was right in saying he "can't be controlled" when he tweeted that he no longer has a manager, referring to Scooter Braun, with whom he parted ways on Tuesday—by stating, "I can't be managed." But he also called out the source he seems to think has been calling out his so-called eccentricity: none other than the founder of TMZ, Harvey Levin. ("Let's be friends. Please never use the word erratic to describe a person who is economically and psychologically empowered.")

Then, as part of the 16 tweets he's fired off as of 8:00 a.m., he also took care to address the story directly: "People magazine. Watch how you speak my name. You would love a pair of Yeezys. Don't play yourself."

The self-proclaimed future president certainly hasn't stopped commenting there, but if you don't feel like sifting through his missives—more of which you can find below—they're best summed up in one he posted immediately after addressing People: "I follow the shade room. Please never try to play Ye."

Related: Typos and All, Kanye West Is Live-Writing His Philosophy Book on TwitterFord today announced it will phase out most cars it sells in North America. According to its latest financial release, the auto giant will "will transition to two vehicles" being the Mustang and an unannounced vehicle, the Focus Active, as the only traditional cars it sells in the region. Ford sees 90 percent of its North America portfolio in trucks, utilities and commercial vehicles. Citing a reduction in consumer demand and product profitability, Ford is in turn not investing into the next generation sedans. The Taurus is no more.

The press release also talks about a new type of vehicle though it sounds like a crossover. This so-called white space vehicle will "combine the best attributes of cars and utilities, such as higher ride height, space and versatility."

Currently, Ford sells six sedans and coupes in North America with the Fiesta, Focus, Fusion, C-Max, Mustang and Taurus. This lineup hits multiple segments from the compact Fiest to the mid-size Focus, C-Max and Fusion to the full-size Taurus. The Mustang stands alone as the lone coupe.

It's likely Lincoln's sedan's will also disappear though this was not explicitly stated in today's press release. Lincoln currently sells the mid-size MKZ and full-size Continental -- both share platforms with Ford counterparts. If Ford is phasing out development of sedan platforms, Lincoln will likely suffer, too.

This reduction in traditional cars was a long time coming. North America consumers have increasing turned to crossovers, trucks and SUVs over sedans and small cars. A trip to any parking lot will likely produce more evidence to this movement. There are several factors involved from more fuel efficient and better equipped trucks and SUVs along with improved safety ratings and ride qualities of these vehicles.

Ford also today reaffirmed its commitment to bringing hybrid-electric powertrains to the F-150, Mustang, Explorer, Escape and upcoming Bronco.

This announcement comes several weeks after Ford explained in broad terms its love affair of trucks and SUVs. Ford estimates that SUVs could make up as much as half the entire U.S. industry retail market by 2020, and that’s why it’s shifting $7 billion in investment capital from its cars business over to the SUV segment. By 2020, Ford also aims to have high-performance SUVs in market, including five with hybrid powertrains and one fully battery electric model.

With this big hybrid push on the SUV side, Ford expects to go from second to first-place in the U.S. hybrid vehicles market by sales, surpassing current leader Toyota by 2021, thanks also to the forthcoming hybrid Mustang and F-150.

Breaking...

This article originally appeared on TechCrunch.

Related Video: Ford Unveils the Focus Active 'Crossover'From Car and Driver

In an unprecedented move that may reshape the entire auto industry, Ford will stop building all sedans and hatchbacks and shift production to crossovers and trucks. It is, by far, the company’s most dramatic production change in its 115-year history since Henry Ford adopted the assembly line.

In its first-quarter statement on Wednesday, the company said it will only sell two cars for the U.S. market within the “next few years” and that it will “not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America.” In a separate post on Medium, Ford CEO Jim Farley said Ford’s trucks and SUVs will soon become 86 percent of the company’s U.S. volume. In its statement, Ford said it will rely solely on a two-car lineup, the new Focus Active-a raised, body-cladded version of its all-new Focus hatchback (a crossover, in other words)-and the Mustang.

Since Ford recently refreshed its Fusion sedan for the second time, that car will stick around the longest-at least for the next couple of years, according to company spokesman Said Deep. The Taurus, which still sits on the same Volvo-based platform as the current Explorer, will cease production by March 2019. The subcompact Fiesta sedan and hatch will die in May 2019. The C-Max, Ford’s only dedicated hybrid in the U.S. market, was dropped last year. The plug-in C-Max Energi will disappear this May.

“The traditional sedan that serves all these buyers will evolve into something else,” Deep told C/D. “It doesn’t mean that you’re abandoning that buyer.”

The all-new 2019 Focus will drop its sedan variant (and most likely the regular five-door hatch) when the Wayne, Michigan, plant stops production of the current generation and makes room for the Ranger pickup next year. Until hybrid versions of the Mustang, F-150, and more crossovers debut, the Fusion Energi will be Ford’s only plug-in until its dedicated “performance utility” EV arrives in 2020. The future of Ford’s premier performance hatch, the Focus RS, is still under consideration.

Ford said it will explore “white space” vehicle designs that are essentially crossovers or faux-utility vehicles that disguise their traditional car shapes with higher ground clearance, body cladding, and all-wheel drive.

Ford’s decision makes Fiat Chrysler’s move in 2016 to ax two of its sedans appear tame. At the time, FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne defended the move to investors as a quick way to increase production of more profitable Jeeps and Ram pickups. Crossovers and SUVs have quickly come to represent more than half of the total industry’s U.S. sales, while sedans and small cars have been sinking. Now, with fewer cars on the market, it appears they will sink more.

You Might Also LikeFILE PHOTO: A Ford worker inspects paint work on the body of a Ford Expedition SUV at Ford's Kentucky Truck Plant as the No. 2 U.S. automaker ramps up production of two large SUV models in Louisville, Kentucky, U.S., February 9, 2018. REUTERS/Nick Carey/File Photo

By Nick Carey and Paul Lienert

DETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co (F.N) on Wednesday outlined a plan to cut costs and boost profit margins at a faster pace than previously announced, which includes dropping traditional sedan models in North America that have become increasingly unpopular with consumers.

The No. 2 U.S. automaker said it now plans to cut $25.5 billion in costs by 2022, up from $14 billion in cuts it announced last fall.

Ford Chief Executive Jim Hackett told investors the company is undergoing "a profound refocus" of its operations and may exit unprofitable businesses.

"We'll restructure as necessary, and we'll be decisive," he said. "We're going to feed the healthy part of our business," and dispose of marginal operations, Hackett added.

Ford said it expects pretax profit margins of 8 percent globally and 10 percent in North America by 2020, ahead of a previous target of 2022.

The company's stock was up 2.6 percent at $11.40 in after-hours trading.

Responding to a shift in consumer demand to SUVs and pickup trucks, Ford said it planned to trim its North American car portfolio to just two models: the sporty Mustang, which debuted 50 years ago this month, and a new compact crossover called Focus Active starting in 2019.

Ford "will not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America," including the midsize Fusion and full-size Taurus, the company said.

The automaker has been under pressure from Wall Street investors to improve its product lineup and lift flagging profit margins. In 2017, the company's pretax profit fell to $8.4 billion from $10.3 billion.

In March, Ford executives unveiled ambitious plans to shift the struggling automaker's product portfolio from passenger cars to SUVs, add more hybrid and pure electric vehicles, and reduce development and manufacturing costs - aimed at boosting profits and the automaker's share price.

Speaking to reporters on Wednesday as the company reported first-quarter results, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said "we have looked at every single part of the business . . . We are driven to turn this business around."

Ford reported a better-than-expected first-quarter profit, with a 7 percent increase in revenue and a lower effective tax rate offsetting a jump in costs, especially higher commodity prices.

The company reported a first-quarter net profit of $1.74 billion, or 43 cents per share, up from $1.6 billion, or 40 cents per share, a year earlier. Analysts had on average expected earnings per share of 41 cents.

Despite the higher profit, Ford's adjusted pretax profit margin fell to 5.2 percent from 6.4 percent in the same quarter in 2017.

CFO Shanks said the company expected that commodity costs would represent a $1.5 billion "headwind" in 2018, $500 million of which came in the first quarter.

The lion's share of the automaker's quarterly profit was driven by high-margin pickup trucks and SUVs in North America. Europe was the only other region to turn a profit for Ford.

The company's loss in its Asia Pacific region was driven by slumping sales in China, where Ford has just begun to introduce new models.

Shanks said the Lincoln brand still is losing money in China, where it launched in 2015, but now plans to begin local production there in 2020.

Joe Hinrichs, president of global operations, said Ford plans to build a new product its Hermosillo plant in Mexico when it quits production of the Fusion sedan, and will also build a new battery electric vehicle in Mexico.





(Reporting by Nick Carey and Paul Lienert; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Lisa Shumaker)Husband’s affair leads to murder-suicide of mistress and wife in Pennsylvania home More

Radnor police provided details Tuesday afternoon on the slaying of former University of Delaware official Meredith Chapman. 4/24/18 SALISBURY, Md. — Jennair Gerardot sent a series of texts to her husband, Mark, on Monday in which she laid out how she planned to kill the woman with whom he was having an affair. Sometime before 7 p.m. Monday, Radnor Township, Pennsylvania, police said, Jennair Gerardot of Wilmington, Del., broke into the home of a former University of Delaware communications official and waited for her to come home, then shot her once before turning the gun on herself. Police later received a 911 call around 7:05 for "two people down" and "blood on the floor." When police arrived,

Continue ReadingMorgan Freeman's step-granddaughter spoke about 'grandpa feelings' before her murder, text messages reveal More

Years-old claims that Morgan Freeman and his slain step-granddaughter E’Dena Hines had a sexual relationship have resurfaced in court as Hines' accused murderer faces trial. Lamar Davenport is charged with the 2015 murder of Hines, his girlfriend at the time. Davenport's lawyer Beth Unger claimed in court on Friday that Hines “disclosed to Davenport and others that her grandfather engaged in a sexually inappropriate relationship with her,” the New York Daily News reported. Text messages revealed during the hearing Friday showed Hines spoke about her relationship with Freeman to Davenport. “I dont ask him for advice,” Hines wrote. “He was calling to ask me ... I blocked him for myself not for

Continue ReadingPatton Oswalt reacts to arrest in 'Golden State Killer' case, made famous by his late wife's book

It's been an emotional day for Patton Oswalt, who learned early this morning that a suspect had been an arrested in the so-called "Golden State Killer" case, made famous by a best-selling book by his late wife, crime writer Michelle McNamara.

After McNamara, 46, died unexpectedly in her sleep in April 2016, Oswalt worked with a researcher and journalist to finish his late wife's book about the serial rapist and murderer believed to have killed at least 12 people and raped at least 45 people throughout California in the 1970s and 1980s.

The book, "I'll Be Gone in the Dark," debuted at No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list last month.

As soon as news of the arrest broke, Oswalt, 48, a prolific tweeter, took to social media.

"I hope you got him, Michelle," he tweeted earlier this morning. "I hope THEY got him."

When someone commented about how happy Oswalt would be hearing the news, the comedian wrote, "Not as happy as Michelle McNamara."

"She would be beyond excited about this," he later tweeted, adding, "I think this is the definition of 'bittersweet.'"

She would be beyond excited about this. I think this is the definition of “bittersweet.” #IllBeGoneInTheDark #MichelleMcNamara #stepintothelight https://t.co/dsYCBdqK7B — Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) April 25, 2018

Suspect arrested in decades-old 'Golden State Killer' case: Sources

Patton Oswalt recalls the day his wife died

Patton Oswalt pays tribute to his late wife

PHOTO: Patton Oswalt and his daughter Alice Oswalt visit LEGOLAND on Feb. 6, 2016 in Carlsbad, Calif. (aniel Knighton/Getty Images) More

Bittersweet because McNamara researched her book for many years before she began formally working on it from 2013 until her death.

Following her death, Oswalt worked with investigative journalist Billy Jensen and researcher Paul Haynes to finish the book.

The trio had just finished a book event in McNamara's hometown, Naperville Illinois, where they were also launching production on a documentary about the case, when news of the suspect's arrest broke.

Oswalt called the timing "surreal."

First day of filming on the documentary was yesterday’s book event in Naperville. All of @TrueCrimeDiary’s family was there. Ended with me saying, “He’s running out of time.”

And now all of this. Surreal. #IllBeGoneInTheDark #GoldenStateKiller https://t.co/qPXz7a7hRy

— Patton Oswalt (@pattonoswalt) April 25, 2018

As he headed on a plane to New York for press appearances around the book, Oswalt declared in a video on Instagram that he was in "full-tilt freakout."

Oswalt and McNamara were married in 2005 and have one child, daughter Alice, who was born in 2009.

The actor remarried last November to actress Meredith Salenger.

PHOTO: Meredith Salenger and actor-comedian Patton Oswalt attend the 2018 Writers Guild Awards L.A. Ceremony at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on Feb. 11, 2018 in Beverly Hills, Calif. ( Charley Gallay/Getty Images) More

But he said he's committed to finishing the work his wife started, including getting some answers from the Golden State Killer that his late wife always wanted to know.He's linked to more than 175 crimes in all between 1976 and 1986

(SACRAMENTO) — A suspected California serial killer who committed at least 12 homicides and 45 rapes throughout the state in the 1970s and ’80s was identified Wednesday as a former police officer, an official said.

A law enforcement official identified Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, who was fired from the Auburn Police Department, as the Golden State Killer.

The official confirmed the identity on condition of anonymity before an official news conference Wednesday.

Armed with a gun, the masked attacker terrorized communities by breaking into homes while single women or couples were sleeping. He sometimes tied up the man and piled dishes on his back, then raped the woman while threatening to kill them both if the dishes tumbled.

He often took souvenirs, notably coins and jewelry, from his victims, who ranged in age from 13 to 41

DeAngelo was fired from the Auburn Police Department in 1979 after he was arrested for stealing a can of dog repellant and a hammer from a drug store, according to Auburn Journal articles from the time.

The FBI says it has a team gathering evidence at a Sacramento- area home linked to DeAngelo.

Sacramento County jail records show DeAngelo was arrested overnight on suspicion of two counts of murder cited in a Ventura County warrant.

Jane Carson-Sandler, who was sexually assaulted in California in 1976 by a man believed to be the so-called “East Area Rapist,” said she received an email Wednesday from a retired detective who worked on the case telling her they have identified the rapist and he’s in custody.

“I have just been overjoyed, ecstatic. It’s an emotional roller-coaster right now,” Carson-Sandler, who now lives near Hilton Head, South Carolina, told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. “I feel like I’m in the middle of a dream and I’m going to wake up and it’s not going to be true. It’s just so nice to have closure and to know he’s in jail.”

Carson-Sandler was attacked in her home in Citrus Heights. A home in that community belonging to a former police officer was being searched Wednesday by FBI investigators and police from several agencies.

Two neighbors who declined to give their names said authorities arrived at the scene before midnight. Sacramento County Jail records show the man who lives at the home was booked into the facility at 2:30 a.m. on suspicion of murder.

Sacramento County district attorney’s spokeswoman Shelly Orio declined to comment before the news conference.

FBI and California officials in 2016 renewed their search for the attacker dubbed the East Area Rapist and announced a $50,000 reward for his arrest and conviction. He’s linked to more than 175 crimes in all between 1976 and 1986.

As he committed crimes across the state, authorities called him by different names. He was dubbed the East Area Rapist after his start in Northern California, the Original Night Stalker after a series of Southern California slayings, and the Diamond Knot Killer for using an elaborate binding method on two of his victims.

Most recently called the Golden State Killer, he has been linked through DNA and other evidence to scores of crimes.

Authorities decided to publicize the case again in 2016 in advance of the 40th anniversary of his first known assault in Sacramento County.

Neighbor Kevin Tapia, 36, said when he was a teenager, DeAngelo falsely accused him of throwing things over their shared fence, prompting a heated exchange between DeAngelo and Tapia’s father. He said DeAngelo could often be heard cursing in frustration in his backyard.

“No one thinks they live next door to a serial killer,” Tapia said. “But at the same time I’m just like, he was a weird guy. He kept to himself. When you start to think about it you’re like, I could see him doing something like that but I would never suspect it.”

— AP writer Jonathan J. Cooper contributed to this report from Citrus Heights, California.Patton Oswalt was in “full tilt freakout” about the arrest of the alleged Golden State Killer, the serial murderer and subject of the bestseller by Michelle McNamara, a true crime writer and the comedian’s late wife. The Sacramento County Sheriff’s Department announced Wednesday that a suspect, Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, had been apprehended in connection with the decades-old cold case that claimed 12 lives in California from the mid-1970s to 1986.

“This is insane,” Oswalt said in a video posted to Instagram Wednesday. “Looks like they’ve caught the East Area Rapist, and if that’s true they’ve caught the Golden State Killer. So, I think you’ve got him Michelle… Full tilt freak out in effect.”

Read More:Studio Ghibli Theme Park Sets 2020 Opening in Japan, Debuts Gorgeous First Look Concept Art

McNamara was the author of New York Times Bestseller “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark: One Woman’s Obsessive Search for the Golden State Killer,” a chilling investigation of the notorious serial killer. Sadly, McNamara died in 2016 before she was able to complete her book. Oswalt, who was married to the author for 11 years, then collaborated with McNamara’s head researcher Paul Haynes and her friend Billy Jensen to complete the book.

“If they’ve really caught the #GoldenStateKiller I hope I get to visit him,” Oswalt tweeted. “Not to gloat or gawk — to ask him the questions that [Michelle McNamara] wanted answered in her “Letter To An Old Man” at the end of #IllBeGoneInTheDark.”

Read More:‘Rafiki’ Trailer: Wanuri Kahiu’s Cannes-Bound Lesbian Love Story Is First Kenyan Feature Film to Screen at Festival

The letter to which Oswalt refers appears on the final page of “I’ll Be Gone in the Dark,” when McNamara urges the killer to “Step into the light.”

See Oswalt’s reaction to the news below.

Sign Up:Stay on top of the latest breaking film and TV news! Sign up for our Email Newsletters here.

Related stories

'Happy!' Review: Ho-Ho-Holy Smokes, Patton Oswalt's Odd Couple Christmas Story Is Divine Lunacy

'Happy!': Patton Oswalt and Christopher Meloni's R-Rated Skype Sessions Enabled The Year's Weirdest Buddy Comedy Series

'Patton Oswalt: Annihilation' Review: One Man's Sincere, Selfless Search for Comedy in Times of Personal Tragedy“Lock Them Up!” Republican’s Campaign Says of Clinton, Comey in Call for Supporters to Sign PetitionShawn Mendes is not even 20 years old, but he has already cemented his status as one of the world’s most popular musicians, across generations.

At the TIME 100 Gala on Tuesday night, Mendes — who also was featured as one of the 100 influential individuals himself — took to the stage to perform for his fellow honorees, artists, celebrities, and changemakers. (Also in the audience: noted superfan Adam Rippon.)

He sailed through songs like megahit “There’s Nothing Holdin’ Me Back,” as well as “Lost in Japan,” “Mercy” and “Stitches.”

He also sang new release “In My Blood,” a soulful pop-rock anthem about uncertainty and overcoming — a poignant topic for a young artist. “Someone help me, I’m crawling in my skin,” he crooned to the crowd. “Sometimes I feel like giving up, but I just can’t.”

When TIME caught up with him after his performance, he explained the emotional back story of the track.

“Growing up as a kid I didn’t really understand what anxiety was. Then all of a sudden, two years ago it really hit me like a brick,” he said. “I had lots of moments of anxiety, but there was this one insanely strong moment, and I remember writing it down in my journal. When we wrote that ‘duh nuh nuh,’ it gave me the same feeling as ‘Fix You’ by Coldplay, and I was like ‘What is it, what is this emotion that it’s evoking for me? And I screamed out at one point, ‘It isn’t in my blood!'”

For Mendes, it was a true a-ha moment. “All these things attached. That’s how songwriting works. When it’s time, your brain puts it all together for you.”

Mendes, who released his last album Illuminate in 2017 and had a double-platinum hit last spring with “There’s Nothing Holdin’ Me Back,” is now leading up to his third album release expected sometime this summer. “He knows his right to stand on that stage is every bit as real as mine is,” fellow rock star musician John Mayer wrote about Mendes in his TIME 100 profile, nodding to the young performer’s power.

MORE: The 100 Most Influential People of 2018MIL 1 0 Travis Shaw doubled to right, Christian Yelich scored, Ryan Braun to third

MIL 2 0 Domingo Santana reached on Jorge Soler's fielding error, Ryan Braun scored, Travis Shaw to third, Domingo Santana to first

MIL 3 0 Jesús Aguilar hit sacrifice fly to center, Travis Shaw scored, Domingo Santana to secondSTL 1 4 Michael Wacha sacrificed, pitcher to catcher, Paul DeJong scored, Kolten Wong to second. Kolten Wong to third on Jose Lobaton's fielding error

STL 1 5 Dexter Fowler walked, Kolten Wong scored, Michael Wacha to third, Harrison Bader to second

STL 1 6 José Martínez hit into fielder's choice, second to shortstop, Michael Wacha scored, Harrison Bader to third, Dexter Fowler outTB

1 0

Brad Miller grounded out, shortstop to first, Denard Span scored, Carlos Gómez to secondYour indefatigable determination enables you to work long hours now without any obvious signs of wear and tear. But your overconfidence can be your downfall. You might not want to reveal any uncertainty while the Mars-Pluto conjunction in your 9th House of Big Ideas amplifies your stubbornness. However, your willingness to look at differing points of view without feeling obligated to change your mind is a sign of intelligence. Ultimately, your willpower enables you to resolve any conflict as long as you keep your priorities in order. Get Your Complete Cosmic ProfileLeBron James knocks down the three-pointer as time expires in the game to lead the Cavaliers to the Game 5 victory over the Indiana Pacers.Former President George H.W. Bush is a longtime Houston Rockets fan. Just ask Dikembe Mutombo. (Getty Images)

Given that George H.W. Bush shouted out his favorite NBA team in a statement announcing he had been transitioned out of Houston Methodist Hospital’s intensive care unit, it’s probably fair to say the former president is in good spirits after being diagnosed with a blood infection earlier this week.

Bush was admitted to the ICU on Sunday following a string of recent hospitalizations, raising concern about his health just one day after the death of former First Lady Barbara Bush, his wife of 73 years. Encouraging news about the 41st president’s health came Wednesday — with a surprise NBA twist:

Herewith an update on the health of former President @GeorgeHWBush: pic.twitter.com/vfhKBv8EFD — Jim McGrath (@jgm41) April 25, 2018





“President George H. W. Bush has been moved from the intensive care unit at Houston Methodist Hospital to a regular patient room, and is expected to continue his recovery there for several more days. He is alert and talking with hospital staff, family and friends, and his doctors are very pleased with his progress.

“President Bush naturally thanks everyone for their prayers and good wishes. He also wants to assure everyone that, as good as he feels now, he is more focused on the Houston Rockets closing out their playoff series against the Minnesota Timberwolves than anything that landed him in the hospital.”

Anybody who’s more concerned with Houston advancing right now than a hospitalization can’t be that worried about their health, considering the top-seeded Rockets lead their first-round series 3-1 with the first of three chances to eliminate the eighth-seeded Minnesota Timberwolves at home on Wednesday night,

Story Continues

Here’s hoping Bush, a Massachusetts native who adopted the Houston area as home after serving in World War II and graduating from Yale University, finds a comfortable spot to watch Game 5. Just no more 50-point quarters, please, because I’m not sure too much excitement is what the doctor ordered.

– – – – – – –

Ben Rohrbach is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at rohrbach_ben@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

• NFL prospect calls out 4 QBs in savage interview

• Gronk ends speculation about his plans for 2018

• Greg Cosell: Darnold might be the perfect project QB

• Chris Mannix: Why Smart was playing for more than just a Celtics win

LaVar Ball (R) has pulled sons LaMelo (L) and LiAngelo out of the Lithuanian Basketball League that heralded their arrival. (AP)

LaVar Ball hasn’t been in the news for a while and hasn’t feuded with one of his sons’ coaches in a while, which makes today’s news regarding the world’s most notorious sports dad all too predictable.

You will be shocked to learn LaVar Ball is pulling his sons LaMelo and LiAngelo off their Lithuanian professional team over a dispute with BC Vytautas Prienai coach Virginijus Seskus regarding LiAngelo’s playing time, according to Lithuanian basketball and Ball family beat reporter Donatas Urbonas.

Ball reality show comes to an end. BC Vytautas confirmed that Ball brothers are set to leave Lithuania next week, with two LKL regular season games left to play. BC Vytautas still will be fighting to avoid relegation. — Donatas Urbonas (@Urbodo) April 25, 2018





"We're not going to waste our time no more", LaVar told. LiAngelo injured his ankle, LaMelo didn't get any playing time, so LaVar decided to take all his sons back to LA. Lonzo is visiting his family in Prienai right now. They're set to leave Sunday-Monday. — Donatas Urbonas (@Urbodo) April 25, 2018





LaVar added that they had to shut down Gelo for the season in order to prepare better for NBA draft combine, pre-draft camps and so on. But he was mad that Melo didn’t get any playing time in the end of the season — Donatas Urbonas (@Urbodo) April 25, 2018





LaVar Ball told he was happy with the Lithuania, its people and BC Vytautas organization: “I just didn’t get along with the coach” — Donatas Urbonas (@Urbodo) April 25, 2018

Story Continues





Lonzo Ball on what are the chances for LaMelo to play in Lithuania next season: “We’ll see. He is still so young” — Donatas Urbonas (@Urbodo) April 25, 2018





LaVar Ball confirmed LaMelo is not going back to Prienai next season: “You really ask me this? Coach ruined everything and he’ll have to pay the price that Melo is not coming back.” — Donatas Urbonas (@Urbodo) April 25, 2018





This is straight out of LaVar’s playbook. He has publicly questioned his sons’ high school, college and professional coaches, pulling LaMelo out of California’s Chino Hills High in October, pulling LiAngelo out of UCLA in December (three weeks after he was arrested for shoplifting in China), and telling ESPN in January that his son Lonzo and the Los Angeles Lakers “don’t want to play for” coach Luke Walton.

This is either a publicity stunt, just plain quitting or both. Vytautas (8-24), currently dead last in the Lithuanian Basketball League and facing relegation to the country’s second-tier league, has two games left on its schedule after this weekend. The Balls signed one-year deals in December that came with contract guarantee options that were picked up for the remainder of the season in February.

LiAngelo, 19, averaged 12.6 points on 42.5 percent shooting and 2.9 rebounds in 21.7 minutes per game, mostly off the bench, over 14 appearances for Vytautas, according to RealGM.com. He has reportedly been battling an ankle injury. The 16-year-old LaMelo, meanwhile, has appeared in just eight games, averaging 6.5 points on 26.8 percent shooting and 2.4 minutes in 12.8 minutes, per RealGM’s database.

LiAngelo declared for the 2018 NBA draft in March, but he is not expected to be drafted, despite his dad’s dream of all three sons playing for the Lakers in 2020. When LiAngelo goes undrafted, LaVar will make news with his two younger sons’ next team and a feud with the next coach will surely follow.

– – – – – – –

Ben Rohrbach is a writer for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at rohrbach_ben@yahoo.com or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

• NFL prospect calls out 4 QBs in savage interview

• Gronk ends speculation about his plans for 2018

• Greg Cosell: Darnold might be the perfect project QB

• Chris Mannix: Why Smart was playing for more than just a Celtics win

Manu Ginobili may have played his last ever NBA game, after the San Antonio Spurs lost their first-round series against the Golden State Warriors.

The defending NBA champions went into Game 5 of the series with a 3-1 advantage and secured a ticket to the Western Conference semifinals with a 99-91 win on home court, thanks in part to Kevin Durant’s 25-point haul.

After the game, Durant, his teammates and Warriors’ coach Steve Kerr warmly embraced the Argentine in what looked like a symbolic goodbye for Ginobili, who finished with 10 points, seven assists and five rebounds in 25 minutes.

Trending: Delta Staff Tied Passenger With Multiple Sclerosis to Her Wheelchair, Family Claims





The four-time NBA champion is yet to make a formal decision on his future, but he will turn 41 in July and there is a feeling his 16th season in San Antonio might have been his last.

"I've been contemplating retirement forever," Ginobili told reporters after the game.

"Nothing has changed. I just don't know. I'll let a month, two months go by and then I'll see how I feel. I'm not the type of guy that makes decisions on the fly, when you're upset, hurt or whatever. I usually let it sink in and see how it feels."

Don't miss: The Internet Got Hacked for Two Hours This Week, and at Least $150,000 in Cryptocurrency Was Stolen

If Ginobili does indeed retire, he will do so as one of the greatest players the league has seen over the last two decades.

On top of four NBA titles, the two-time All Star was named Sixth Man of the Year in 2008 and is one of only five players—along with Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen, LeBron James and Kyrie Irving—to have won an Olympic gold medal and an NBA title in the same year.

Despite playing in a far from vintage Spurs team, Ginobili broke a number of records this season, becoming the only player aged 40 or older in NBA history to score 20 or more points while coming off the bench and becoming the Spurs’ career leader in steals.

Story Continues

On Sunday, as the Spurs beat the Warriors to keep the series alive, he became only the fourth player to score at least 16 points in a playoff game at age 40 or older, alongside Tim Duncan, Karl Malone and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, and is eight in the all-time list of playoff games played.

Most popular: Melania Trump's State Dinner Menu Slammed As 'Froo-froo Garbage' By Pundit

Kerr, who won the 2003 NBA title as a player alongside Ginobili, said he hoped his former teammate would keep playing.

"I'm hoping that's not his last game,” Kerr was quoted as saying by ESPN.

“I just told him I hope he keeps playing because he's been just amazing for the league and so fun to watch night in and night out."

Tuesday’s defeat to the Warriors could also spell the end of Tony Parker’s career in San Antonio. The Frenchman, who has won 132 playoff games alongside Ginobili—the most in playoffs history—is 35 and will be a free agent this summer, but is yet to make a decision about his future.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekNobody is sure how the Kawhi Leonard situation is going to play out with the Spurs. As is the nature of the NBA, the GMs of other teams are starting to circle the Spurs like vultures, on the chance that this time Gregg Popovich cannot smooth out the relationship with his star player and needs to trade him. Leonard spent the playoffs away from the team, working out and talking to doctors in New York while “his group” shielded him from attempts from San Antonio to reach out.

Now has come the time for the sides to talk, and that will happen soon reports Jabari Young of the San Antonio Express-News.

And now the offseason questions will come…before the nonsense starts, #Spurs and Kawhi Leonard will be the topic of discussion. Source tell @ExpressNews he’ll return to San Antonio once Exit Interviews are scheduled and take it from there. — Jabari Young (@JabariJYoung) April 25, 2018

What happens during and after that meeting is anyone’s guess.

The Spurs will only move Leonard as a last resort, and they have two things on their side. First, Gregg Popovich, who has maintained a healthy relationship with his star pupil through all of this. LaMarcus Aldridge told Popovich he wanted to be traded last summer, and over the course of some dinner meetings and self-reflection, Popovich was able to both keep Aldridge in the fold and put him in positions to be an All-NBA level player this season. The key is that both sides were willing to talk with an open mind, are Leonard and his advisors open to that?

Second, the Spurs have the ultimate hammer — the $219 million designated veteran extension (the contract James Harden and Russell Westbrook signed this year). Put that on the table and Leonard will sign it. The question is will the Spurs put it out there? Probably not if Leonard makes it clear he doesn’t want to be in San Antonio any longer. That’s when the trade talks start to gain traction.

Story Continues

But we’re not there yet. Not even close. Let the meetings play out first.

Related Video: Leonard Goes Weeks Without Responding to SpursSAN ANTONIO -- By eliminating the San Antonio Spurs on Tuesday, the No. 2 seed Warriors advanced to the Western Conference Semifinal round, where they will face New Orleans, with Game 1 set for Saturday at a time to be determined.

The No. 6 seed Pelicans advanced last Saturday with a four-game sweep of the third-seeded Portland Trail Blazers.

Here is a look at recent history as well as matchups -- as best we can determine, considering many will involve cross-matching -- between the Warriors and Pelicans:

POINT GUARD

Andre Iguodala vs. Rajon Rondo: It's possible but not likely that Stephen Curry will be available for Game 1, which means Warriors coach Steve Kerr should stay with Andre Iguodala, whose defense and intellect were on display against the Spurs. Rondo clearly is the leader of the Pelicans and is playing at a very high level. He averaged 13.3 assists per game against Portland and scored well enough (11.3 ppg, 48.7 percent FG) to keep defenses honest.

EDGE: Even.

SHOOTING GUARD

Klay Thompson vs. Jrue Holiday: This matchup, featuring the best two-way guards in the league, should be highly entertaining. With the exception of Game 4, Thompson was fabulous against the Spurs, averaging 22.6 ppg on 52.9-percent shooting, including 51.6 percent beyond the arc. Holiday also was superb, averaging 27.8 ppg on 56.8-percent shooting while shutting down Trail Blazers star Damian Lillard. Thompson is four-time All-Star and Holiday, who hasn't been an All-Star since 2013, is reminding everyone of his considerable skills.

EDGE: Even.

SMALL FORWARD

Kevin Durant vs. E'Twaun Moore: Durant is a consensus top-5 player and, at 6-foot-11, presents a matchup headache for any defender. He can also expect to at times match up with Pelicans star Anthony Davis. Durant led the Warriors in scoring against the Spurs (28.2 ppg, 48 percent FG but only 25 percent from deep) and will be target No. 1 for the New Orleans defense. Put another way, Moore, will spend less time on Durant than a couple of his teammates.

Story Continues

EDGE: Significant edge to Durant.

POWER FORWARD

Draymond Green vs. Nikola Mirotic: Another juicy matchup, featuring the splendid defensive gifts of Green against the brilliant shooting of Mirotic. Though Green also will get turns against absurdly good Pelicans center Anthony Davis, he is sure to see plenty of Mirotic, who against Portland averaged 19.3 ppg, shooting 46.2 from deep and 57.1 overall. In either case, Green, who at times single-handedly thwarted San Antonio's offense, will have to spend more time playing on-ball defense.

EDGE: Slight edge to Green

CENTER

Entire Warriors army vs. Anthony Davis: The matchup description is not much of a stretch. Davis, who is every bit to matchup headache that Durant is. Davis' 33 ppg in the first round leads all playoff scorers, is going to see no fewer than four different defenders -- Kevon Looney, JaVale McGee, Durant and Green -- over the course of this series. Anyone who defends the 6-10 star is going to need both skill and luck. On the other end, Davis will patrol the paint in an effort to protect the rim. He leads all playoff performers in blocks (2.8 bpg).

EDGE:Significant edge to Davis

SEASON SERIES

The Warriors and Pelicans met four times, with the Warriors winning three times:

Nov. 20 at New Orleans: Warriors 128, Pelicans 120 Nov. 25 at Oakland: Warriors 110, Pelicans 95 Dec. 4 at New Orleans: Warriors 125, Pelicans 115 April 7 at Oakland: Pelicans 126, Warriors 120The NFL draft is almost here. It kicks off Thursday evening, bring an end to speculation and suggestion and guessing what teams will do in an unpredictable enterprise. That won't stop us from forecasting what will happen next.

A run on quarterbacks would be beneficial to the Raiders at No. 10 overall, and the 49ers just beforehand at No. 9. The Silver and Black will have some quality options, especially on defense when they're put on the clock. The 49ers have similar needs and could take one of their guys, but a good player is expected to fall into the Raiders' lap.

Here's my one and only (solo) mock draft. Feel free to bookmark this page and ridicule me mercilessly over missing on so many. P.S. No trades. That just makes things complicated.

Check out my seven-round Raiders mock draft right here. I tackle the whole league below:

1, Cleveland: QB Sam Darnold, USC

Ignore all the reports of the Browns taking anyone else. That's all smoke. Darnold's the guy in Cleveland



2, N.Y. Giants: RB Saquon Barkley, Penn State

The best running back in some time doesn't last long. The Giants still have Eli at the helm.



3, N.Y. Jets: QB Baker Mayfield, Oklahoma

Mayfield has his fans. His personality will play well in the Big Apple.



4, Cleveland: DE Bradley Chubb, N.C. State

Myles Garrett off one edge. Chubb off the other. Yikes.



5, Denver: QB Josh Allen, Wyoming

Elway and Allen. One big, strong, confident quarterback selects another.



6, Indianapolis: CB Denzel Ward, Ohio State

The Colts need everything except a quarterback, and even that's a maybe until we see Andrew Luck play again. Indy goes with the draft's best cover corner.



7, Tampa Bay: S Derwin James

The Bucs secondary needs a major upgrade. James is a tone setter at the safety spot.



8, Chicago: G Quenton Nelson, Notre Dame

Nelson reunites with a former Notre Dame position coach in Chicago. More protection for Mitch(ell) Trubisky. Match made in heaven.



Story Continues

9, 49ERS: LB Roquan Smith, Georgia

The uncertainty surrounding Reuben Foster forces the 49ers to take a plug-and-play interior linebacker. If Foster returns, that pair could be dominant. If he doesn't the 49ers still have a leader in the middle. .



10, RAIDERS: DB Minkah Fitzpatrick, Alabama

Silver and Black get a do-it-all defensive back who shores up several deficiencies. He'll be a long-term fixture in the Raiders secondary.



11, Miami: DT Vita Vea, Washington

The Dolphins let Ndamukong Suh go this offseason, and draft his replacement. Vea's far cheaper, super effective and much less of a headache.



12, Buffalo: QB Josh Rosen, UCLA

Bills get the top quarterback they were looking for. In real life, they'll probably have to trade up to get him. That isn't allowed here, and Rosen falls to a team that needs him bad.



13, Washington: LB Tremaine Edmunds, Virginia Tech

Edmunds can do so much so well. Washington's thrilled to pair him with Zach Brown on the inside, and let him rush the passer off the edge in sub packages. Dude has serious potential.



14, Green Bay: DE Marcus Davenport, Texas-San Antonio

Davenport's a freak, and could provide the defensive pressure Green Bay has sorely missed. Aaron Rodgers can't outscore everybody.



15, Arizona: QB Lamar Jackson, Lousiville

Cardinals need a quarterback. They get a playmaker who can sling it.



16, Baltimore: WR Calvin Ridley, Alabama

The Ravens need receiver help, even with Michael Crabtree and Willie Snead in the mix for multiple years.



17, L.A. Chargers: OT Mike McGlinchey, Notre Dame

Chargers need a long-term solution at tackle, especially over two injury-prone veterans. McGlinchey's the steady presence they're looking for.



18, Seattle: DE Harold Landry, Boston College

The Seahawks like athletes creating pressure. The Seahawks get a talented one who can get after the quarterback.



19, Dallas: WR D.J. Moore, Maryland

Receiver is a pressing need with Dez Bryant recently cut.



20, Detroit: DT Taven Bryan, Florida

The Lions need an improved run defense and an interior pass rush. Bryan can handle both requirements.



21, Cincinnati: C/G James Daniels, Iowa

Bengals need help on the interior offensive line. Daniels fits in a center and guard, but is the draft's best middle man.



22, Buffalo: OG Isaiah Wynn, Georgia

The Bills and their new quarterback Josh Rosen need protection up front after losing starting guards. Wynn should step right in and start.



23, New England: T Kolton Miller, UCLA

Miller's a near consensus pick to become a Patriot. Who am I to argue? The Bruins could be a standout left tackle.



24, Carolina: CB Mike Hughes, Central Florida

Hughes has prototypical NFL size, and could be the consistent outside cornerback the Panthers need.



25, Tennessee: LB Leighton Vander Esch, Boise State

The Titans need an interior linebacker and get one of this draft's best.



26, Atlanta: DT De'Ron Payne, Alabama

He's an automatic upgrade on run defense, with some pass-rush ability. Fills a major need.



27, New Orleans: TE Hayden Hurst, South Carolina

The Saints need a dynamic tight end pretty bad. Drew Brees gets another weapon.



28, Pittsburgh: LB Rashaan Evans, Alabama

Evans is a thumper. Perfect fit in Pittsburgh. He can play inside, and rush the passer.



29, Jacksonville: WR Cortland Sutton, SMU

The Jaguars add a pass catcher after losing Allen Robinson in free agency.



30, Minnesota: G Will Hernandez, Texas-El Paso

The aggressive, physical interior lineman to led a line in need of significant help.



31, New England: CB Jaire Alexander, Louisville

The Patriots need coverage help. Alexander can provide that outside or in the slot.



32, Philadelphia: RB Derrius Guece, LSU

A powerful runner with great speed, vision and balance. He's tough to take down.

Jordan Spieth believes his spectacular Sunday charge at this month's Masters could have yielded a final-round 59.

Patrick Reed ultimately prevailed at Augusta to claim his first major title, but Spieth threatened to pull off a golfing miracle as he came from nine shots back to tie the lead with two holes to play.

A bogey on the 18th hole meant the 2015 champion signed for an eight-under 64 and finished third, two behind Reed and one adrift of Rickie Fowler.

READ MORE: Quiros maintains one-shot lead in Rabat

READ MORE: Rodgers and Paul to take NFL-NBA battle to the golf course

READ MORE: Quiros’ birdie-birdie finish earns a share of Rabat lead

In a news conference ahead of the Zurich Classic, where he will return to competitive action this week, Spieth was asked if he had taken any time to reflect on how close he came to achieving something historic.

"I watched it. I watched the Sunday coverage. I wanted to learn a bit from it," replied the three-time major champion.

"I felt like it was the best my swing has ever held up under the gun, especially my driving. So I wanted to kind of see what that looked like compared to other times and also I was interested in how it looked from the viewers' perspective.

"I look back on it and I actually thought that I truly could have shot 59, without doing much more than making a few more putts.

"I gave myself the opportunities on each hole to shoot 59 that day, which is really, really cool."

The course record at Augusta is 63, a score achieved by Nick Price and Greg Norman in 1986 and 1996 respectively.

Spieth is hopeful he can build on his efforts at the Masters and the Houston Open that preceded it, where he recorded another third-placed finish in a welcome return to form.

"I think I got on the right path," he added. "I was kind of working on things throughout the year, thinking I was doing the right things, and I finally feel like I got the short game back on track in Houston and Augusta.

Story Continues

"To hit those kind of putts under pressure and see some of those go in, I think it will be beneficial going forward this year. It very well could be a spark for a really solid year.

"I'm very pleased with the last couple of tournaments I've played and where I've come from the month prior to that."The Philadelphia 76ers are moving on to the Eastern Conference semifinals, overwhelming the dogged but outgunned Miami Heat to earn a convincing and impressive 4-1 win, It’s just Philly’s second trip to the second round in the last 15 seasons, and it’s the first playoff series victory for rising stars Joel Embiid, Ben Simmons, Dario Saric … and, for that matter, head coach Brett Brown.

Nobody has more fully borne the weight of the 76ers’ yearslong rebuilding process than Brown, who took the lead job in Philadelphia just over a month after a just-hired general manager named Sam Hinkie began dismantling a decent-but-not-good-enough team by trading All-Star point guard Jrue Holiday for Nerlens Noel, an enticing defensive prospect who maybe wasn’t going to play as a rookie after tearing the ACL in his left knee, and a future first-round draft pick.

As the Sixers sold process, promise and possibility, a vision of a gleaming titan that would someday compete for championships, Brown had to do the day-to-day work of coaching overmatched, not-ready-for-the-NBA rosters. He had to work to build a culture around the principles and habits that the organization believed would one day allow it to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the NBA’s elite … even though most of the players he was working with wouldn’t be wearing a 76ers uniform when that day came.

Brown had to grin and bear it through three years in which the Sixers went 47-199; to keep teaching and motivating through Noel, Embiid and Simmons all missing their would-be rookie seasons due to injury; to find something to sustain his charges through record-setting losing streaks and a brutal 10-win season that, under different circumstances, would have cost everybody their jobs. (Instead, it was just the guy who started everything in motion who wound up on the outside.)

Story Continues

This is what sustained him: the belief that it would click, that it would pay off, that he really would get to coach the roster with top-end talent and legit contributors. And now, after a roaring 52-win regular season and a five-win dismissal of a hard-nosed and professional Miami squad, Brown’s faith has been rewarded. So, on Wednesday, he got to congratulate his team, and to celebrate a little bit.

Ring that bell Brett! pic.twitter.com/KIQ0WxNk5B — The Bitter Birds (@AdrianFedkiw) April 25, 2018





“That is a monumental effort, given where we were and where we are,” Brown said in the locker room after Game 5. “To win a round in the playoffs is not to be denied. That’s special, especially given where we have come from. That’s the first thing. And the second thing, and I have said this to you — I believe it, you believe it — we have so much more to grow and give.”

He paused and turned back to Embiid, just three games removed from his return to the lineup following weeks on the shelf after surgery to repair an orbital fracture.

“You’re going to start playing more and more with us,” Brown said. “These playoff experiences, as you guys learn — like, real-time adjustments, as we sit in the film sessions — we got more to give. And we got more to grow. And we know that.”

At that, Brown invited veteran shooting guard J.J. Redick — Philly’s leading scorer in the series-clinching win, pouring in 27 points and knocking down five of his 10 3-point tries — over to ring a small ceremonial bell that the team’s been using for months, sort of like a game ball, to celebrate victories. But Redick would have none of it, putting the bell right back in the hands of his coach … as the rest of the Sixers poured whatever they had handy over Brown’s head in celebration.

It was a pretty cool scene.





Afterward, though, Brown still had to go give his post-game press conference, which included an all-time line …

Brett Brown, drenched in celebratory chocolate milk: "I really don't apologize. I love being wet." — Jake Fischer (@JakeLFischer) April 25, 2018





… and a pretty great summation of how far the Sixers have come during his stewardship of the franchise.

“Through rough times, through adversity, for sure, we didn’t blink,” Brown said. “We stayed strong in what we were trying to do […] We’ve got more to do. We’ve got more to give. We’re excited, for sure, and there was a sense of just gratitude, and [I’m] proud of all of us for staying together.”

JJ Redick hands the 76ers’ celebratory liberty bell back to head coach Brett Brown after their Game 5 victory over the Miami Heat. (Getty)

More NBA coverage:

– – – – – – –

Dan Devine is a writer and editor for Yahoo Sports. Have a tip? Email him at devine@oath.com or follow him on Twitter!

More from Yahoo Sports:

• Pat Forde: What Duke’s new housing rule means for the school

• Rockies fight trolls who targeted female broadcaster

• CharlesRobinson: Dolphins owner may hold key in Kaepernick case

• Kershaw on elite club: ‘Don’t think I’m gonna make that’

And so ends another episode of Warriors Angst. With a fresh boatload of torture to remind the audience that there is more to come in the next exciting installment.

While there may be some local consternation over Dwyane Wade describing the Philadelphia 76ers as "the future of the NBA," its present reminded itself and its various nations just how easy it is to retain its hold on the driver's seat. By first smothering and then desperately repelling the San Antonio Spurs, 99-91, to finish this Western Conference quarterfinal series, the Golden States demonstrated that a devotion to defense solves all other issues, including offense, boredom, weariness, neuritis, neuralgia and excessive stress caused by trumped-up worry.

In other words, they did what needed to be done, albeit disjointedly, thus setting up a second-round match with the New Orleans Pelicans that will be more difficult, more intriguing, and with this level of defensive intent, perhaps more decisively.

That's how the Warriors work, after all. When they engage defensively, their offense raises itself (at least, when they're not shooting 18.5 percent from three), their energy regenerates, and people don't wonder if they lack focus.

Plus, the Spurs shot miserably themselves, couldn't run their offense coherently on either side of the arc, were desperately outmatched until their desperate fourth quarter charge that cut a 16-point lead to two before expiring breathlessly. In short, they finally ran out of ways to cheat the inevitable.

But this wasn't about San Antonio, except maybe to San Antonio, Theirs was a lost season and a doomed series from the moment Kawhi Leonard left the lineup for good, and the death of Erin Popovich, Gregg's wife, reduced the players and coaches to fumes. It was not, in the end, a terribly fair fight, though they get full credit and glory for refusing to bend the knee until the last possible moment.

Story Continues

But for Golden State, the exemplaries were less in the box score and more in the sweat equity. They opened the game with a conviction never evidenced in Game 4, and certainly not to this extent in Games 1, 2 or 3, never allowing San Antonio to create a rhythm until the Warriors' offense found theirs – albeit a rhythm developed inside the arc (32-of-56, 57 percent) rather than outside it. In addition they committed only 10 turnovers, their fifth fewest all year, and Klay Thompson's shooting (24 points on 22 shots), Draymond Green's rebounding (five offensive, 14 defensive) and just enough help from everyone else made a game that was too close for comfort still exactly the way they will need over the next two weeks.

So it is now the Pelicans who obstruct their view, a bizarre choice in a bizarre year in which the Western Conference was so narrowly settled that it had more six-seeds than playoff berths.

The Warriors are still not completely convincing as the Season Of Being Less Warrior-y continues. But just as New Orleans rises into view, so does Stephen Curry, and the dreams of a team that isn't ready to watch someone else be the future by ceding the present remain sufficiently buoyant.

In other words, the Warriors avoided an embarrassing defeat by remembering that there is strength in stinginess, and will have to show that very virtue again and again, even after Curry returns. We said four months ago this would be the hardest title to win, and they've already bled to get a quarter of the way there.The 2018 Stanley Cup Playoffs are really gearing up with the second round looming. Why limit the pettiness to social media?

Russian Machine Never Breaks’ Ian Oland passes along word that the Washington Capitals are attempting to take a page from the Vegas Golden Knights in barring unwanted Pittsburgh Penguins fans from their home games in round two.

[NBC’s Stanley Cup Playoff Hub]

The specific plan would (at least attempt to) prohibit fans from putting up special pre-sale tickets up for re-sale, again echoing the Golden Knights’ plan (which you can read more about in this post). Here’s an excerpt from the email Oland unearthed at RMNB:

We are offering Club Red 365 members the first opportunity to purchase additional limited inventory at preferred pricing through this exclusive pre-sale. Tickets purchased through this special offer will not be eligible for resale posting as we plan to create an amazing atmosphere in the building where we want all fans Rocking the Red in ALL CAPS.

That seems a bit silly and could even be a sign of mild insecurity, but also seems … kind of great?

For one thing, this series could go either way, and the last thing Capitals fans want to deal with is gloating Penguins devotees crowing about the Pens possibly stealing some games in Washington. Especially with the opportunities for high-profile gloating.

Uhhh, Washington we have a problem. A massive group of #Penguins fans have taken over museum steps across from VC pic.twitter.com/Hn9xGtT74q — Chris Russell (@Russellmania621) May 1, 2016





Some might be chagrined by teams taking measures to keep out opposing fans, yet if you ask me, it’s all fair game, especially if the arena’s going to be sold out anyway. (If you’re, say, the Ottawa Senators or some other team having trouble filling the building during a playoff game, then maybe you have to be more accomodating.)

Story Continues

Like it or not, this measure follows a pattern of behavior by the Capitals and for some NHL teams overall.

As Oland’s piece notes, Capitals owner Ted Leonsis hasn’t been shy about trying to figure out ways to keep Penguins fans out of his building. The AOL executive apparently even punched up his own computer program to try to do the trick. This latest measure is simply the latest strategy, as the Capitals have also tried to curtail an influx of hostile fans by restricting purchases by region and similar limitations.

And, again, the Capitals are far from the only NHL team trying different ways to maintain their home-ice advantage.

The Golden Knights provided a nice blueprint for trying to limit Kings fans when you consider the close proximity between the two franchises. The Nashville Predators have taken similar steps before and appear eager to do so again as their clash looms with the Winnipeg Jets and their passionate fanbase. Checking through PHT’s archives, we’ve seen plenty of examples, including one stretching back as far as 2012 when the New Jersey Devils ran a “No Blue” campaign against the New York Rangers.

(Feel free to mention some other similar campaigns in the comments, as there have probably been a ton of them.)

If such tactics make you grind your teeth, consider this: Penguins fans will almost certainly find their way to Capitals home games, possibly even in large numbers. There’s likely no way of avoiding such a situation in this technological age, particularly if Pens fans are aiming for spite.

In the grand scheme of things, it’s all in good fun, and it might even provide another talking point as these two rivals meet in the second round for the third year in a row.

—

James O’Brien is a writer for Pro Hockey Talk on NBC Sports. Drop him a line at phtblog@nbcsports.com or follow him on Twitter @cyclelikesedins.We have one game left in the opening round of the 2018 Stanley Cup Playoffs. The Toronto Maple Leafs and Boston Bruins will do battle at TD Garden Wednesday night (7:30 p.m. ET, NBCSN) in Game 7 with the winner advancing to face the Tampa Bay Lightning.

As we wait for the full second-round schedule, the NHL has released the start dates and times for opening games of each series, including the situations depending on whether the Bruins or Maple Leafs win.

[NBC’s Stanley Cup Playoff Hub]

Thursday, April 26

• The Pittsburgh Penguins and Washington Capitals will kick off at 7 p.m. ET (NBCSN) from Capital One Center in Washington, D.C.

• Out West, the San Jose Sharks will visit T-Mobile Arena and the Vegas Golden Knights for their opener at 10 p.m. ET (NBCSN).

Friday, April 27

• The top two teams in the NHL will meet in the first game of their best-of-7 at 8 p.m. ET (NBCSN) as the Nashville Predators play host to Patrik Laine and the Winnipeg Jets.

Saturday, April 28

• If Boston advances, the Bruins and Lightning will play Game 1 at 3 p.m. ET (NBC) at AMALIE Arena in Tampa.

• If Toronto advances, the Maple Leafs will get their Hockey Night in Canada timeslot and visit the Lightning at 8 p.m. ET (NBCSN)

————

Sean Leahy is a writer forPro Hockey Talk on NBC Sports. Drop him a line atphtblog@nbcsports.com or follow him on Twitter @Sean_Leahy.With the Heat standing well above next season’s projected $101 million salary cap, here’s a look at the remaining contractual commitments to players under contract through at least next season and potentially beyond: Hassan Whiteside: Due $24.4 million next season and a player option for $27.1 million in 2019-20. Goran Dragic: Due $18.1 million next season, with a $19.2 million player option for 2019-20. Josh Richardson: Due $9.4 million, $10.1 million, $10.9 million, $11.6 million each of the next four seasons. James Johnson: Due $14.4 million and $15.1 million in the next two seasons, with a $15.8 million player option in 2020-21. Dion Waiters: Due $12.7 million, $13.3 million and $13.9 millionSay hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreSay hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreVirtually all eyes on Wall Street looked to Facebook (FB) on Wednesday, which posted first-quarter 2018 earnings that beat Wall Street’s estimates and followed one of the most controversial periods for the social network in its history.

Facebook reported earnings of $1.69 per share on $11.97 billion in revenues for the quarter. Wall Street analysts were generally expecting earnings of $1.35 per share on revenues of $11.4 billion for the quarter.

The social network also reported 2.2 billion monthly active users worldwide — a bit higher than the expected 2.19 billion monthly active users — and 1.45 billion daily active users. That’s up from 2.13 billion monthly active users and 1.4 billion daily active users in the previous quarter.

“For most of our existence, we focused mostly on the positives, but it’s clear now we didn’t do enough to prevent foreign interference, hate speech or app developers [from mishandling] data privacy,” Zuckerberg said at the start of the company’s earnings call with investors on Wednesday afternoon.

Still, despite those missteps and challenges, Zuckerberg acknowledged that Facebook’s userbase, or the “Facebook community,” continues to grow at a healthy clip. Facebook’s chief executive also reiterated the social network’s pledge to beef up its security and content review teams — a mix of full-time employees and contractors — to well over 20,000 people by the end of 2018.

Facebook also said it would increase its stock buyback program by $9 billion. The social network’s stock rose 3.5% on Wednesday following the positive earnings news.

Facebook’s latest earnings arrive amid heightened scrutiny around the social network. In mid-March news emerged that Cambridge Analytica had abused Facebook’s terms of service and harvested the data of 50 million users — a number the social network eventually revised to 87 million users — as part of a targeted advertising campaign to help elect President Donald Trump. Facebook management’s initial delay in addressing the controversy head-on stoked the public’s outcry for increased data privacy and government regulation.

The brouhaha culminated in two days of hearings in mid-April that saw Zuckerberg grilled by senators on the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees, as well as representatives from the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committees, on a number of issues, including the recent Cambridge Analytica scandal, the company’s role in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, and its position on government regulation regarding user privacy.

Although the 33-year-old Facebook executive’s testimony was well-received, Zuckerberg also left a number of questions unanswered. To that end, Facebook has a long road ahead, which includes hiring more than 20,000 employees and contractors by the end of 2018 to shore up security and privacy, as well as rebuilding public trust with disillusioned politicians on the Hill and disaffected users.

—

JP Mangalindan is the Chief Tech Correspondent for Yahoo Finance covering the intersection of tech and business. Email story tips and musings to jpm@oath.com. Follow him on Twitter or Facebook.

More from JPNEW YORK (AP) — A late round of buying erased early losses on Wall Street, leaving major indexes mixed at the close of trading. Bigger companies managed to eke out modest gains, while smaller companies mostly fell.

A big gain in Boeing pushed the Dow Jones industrial average higher, breaking a five-day losing streak. Late in the day, energy companies got a boost after Exxon Mobil said it is raising its quarterly dividend.

Stocks got off to a weak start as investors worried that growing costs for raw materials along with rising interest rates would hold back profit growth for U.S. companies. Defense contractors stumbled following first-quarter reports from Northrop Grumman and General Dynamics.

U.S. bond yields rose again and set four-year highs while oil prices, already at three-year highs, continued to move higher.

Stocks had tumbled on Tuesday after companies including Caterpillar, 3M and Sherwin-Williams said they seeing higher costs. Caterpillar also said it doesn't expect to top its first-quarter earnings for the rest of this year.

On Wednesday Goodyear Tire & Rubber said higher raw materials costs and weaker demand hurt its business in the first quarter. Its stock fell 5.1 percent to $25.51.

Invesco Chief Global Market Strategist Kristina Hooper said investors are starting to worry that the market's best days are behind it. She noted that wages are rising, as unemployment has been at multi-decade lows for the last few years. That means costs for companies are up. Oil prices have also jumped and investors are worried that new tariffs will also drive up costs and affect company earnings in the months to come.

"I wouldn't be surprised if earnings peaked by the end of this year, but certainly they haven't peaked yet," she said.

The S&P 500 index added 4.84 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,639.40. The Dow rose 59.70 points, or 0.2 percent, at 24,083.83. The losing streak was its longest in more than a year.

The Nasdaq composite dipped 3.61 points, or 0.1 percent, to 7,003.74. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks lost 2.81 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,550.47. Most stocks on the New York Stock Exchange fell.

Investors expected strong profit growth this year thanks to the growing global economy and the corporate tax cut President Donald Trump signed at the end of 2017. That optimism helped send stocks to record highs in January. Now investors are worrying about whether that growth will show up.

Aerospace company Boeing topped Wall Street's estimates in the first quarter and raised its forecasts for the year. Its stock gained 4.2 percent to $342.86 and railroad operator Norfolk Southern climbed 8.1 percent to $145.96 after it, too, surpassed analyst projections.

Investors also monitored rising interest rates, which tend to slow down economic growth by making it more expensive for people and companies to borrow money. Bond prices fell again Wednesday, sending yields higher. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note kept setting four-year highs as it rose to 3.03 percent from 3 percent.

Low interest rates have played an important role in the economic recovery of the last decade, and the yield on the 10-year note is a benchmark for many kinds of interest rates including mortgages. It's been climbing because investors expect higher economic growth and inflation. While investors expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates two more times this year, growing numbers of them now expect it to raise rates a third time after that.

Media conglomerate Comcast made a new offer to buy British broadcaster Sky, this time for $30 billion. Sky had accepted a $16.5 billion offer from 21st Century Fox. British regulators are investigating whether Fox's bid for Sky would give Rupert Murdoch and his family too much control over the country's news media.

Comcast also had a stronger first quarter than analysts expected, although it continued to lose cable subscribers. Its stock rose 2.7 percent to $34.26. Sky gained 3.9 percent in London. Fox rose 1.6 percent to $36.58, while Disney, which plans to buy most of Fox's overseas and entertainment assets, climbed 1.7 percent to $101.15.

Germany's DAX fell 1 percent and Britain's FTSE 100 and France's CAC 40 both lost 0.6 percent. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 shed 0.3 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1.1 percent and the South Korean Kospi lost 0.6 percent.

Story ContinuesMany of us know the magic of investing money in the stock market—just letting it sit and watching it grow—but few of us really grasp just how powerfully enriching this can be. Not surprisingly, Warren Buffett, the world’s greatest investor, has a vivid example of this which he shared with me during a visit earlier this year at Berkshire Hathaway headquarters in Omaha.

First, take yourself back, way back to America’s entry into World War II. Franklin Roosevelt was president and Buffett was a young boy. And as you may know young Buffett, unlike most kids his age interested in games or sports, was basically consumed by the stock market. And at that dark moment in US history, Buffett was ready to take action.

“Let me give you a figure that’ll blow your mind I think. I bought my first stock when I was 11 years old. It was the first quarter of 1942, shortly after Pearl Harbor,” Buffett recalls. “I spent $114.75, [for] shares [of a stock.] $114.75. If I put that $114 into the S&P 500 at that time and reinvested the dividends, think of a figure as to what it…would be worth today,” he asked me?

So, what do think?

$10,000?

$75,000?

I’ll give you some help. That’s way low.

Let’s pick it up with Buffett again: “The answer is about $400,000. So if I as a little kid had taken that 114 bucks I’d saved— shoveling snow (LAUGH) or whatever I’d done, [I’d have] $400,000 today. [In] one person’s lifetime. That’s America. I mean, that isn’t me. You know, it’s the huge tailwind the American economy gives to any equity investor.”

Buffett acknowledges that it’s not always easy to stick with it all the way through.

“Now, the market’s gone down many times during that time,” he reminded me. “People have panicked during that time. Headlines have been terrible. You know, it looked like we were losing the war when we first got in. But America is a powerful economic machine that, since 1776, it’s worked and it’s gonna keep working.”

And then he’s almost giving me a pep talk. As in, ‘come on, you can do this!’

“Now, you don’t wanna buy to hold for a year, you don’t wanna buy with the idea that you could sell it in two years or three years necessarily, to make money. You may— you could lose money that way,” he says. “But if you buy it for $10, $20, just keep buying the S&P 500 index and forget about all the other nonsense that’s being sold to you because I’ll guarantee you one thing about (LAUGH) the stuff being sold to you, it will carry bigger fees than what (LAUGH) I’m talking about.”

By that last point Buffett means those big management or brokerage fees would eat up your returns in a huge way and you’d end up with far less that $400K.

So here’s a big question: Will it happen again? In other words, if you invested a similar sum and held it for the same 76 years or so, would you still make out—maybe not exactly the same of course—but would you still make out like a bandit?

Buffett answers that if not directly, then directionally.

“The S&P 500 companies have earned well over 10% on equity, often 15% annually for years, and years, and years, and years,” Buffett says. “They’ve done it— with Democratic administrations, with Republican administrations. Now, you get money compounding at that kind of rate underlying your investment, and you get a diversified group of that, I mean, you’re going to do well.”

You pick up these kinds of things from investing for almost eight decades.

Watch Warren Buffett LIVE at the 2018 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Shareholders Meeting exclusively on the Yahoo Finance app and desktop. Coverage begins May 5 at 9:45am ET. Set a reminder now!

Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting will be held on May 5. More

More with Warren Buffett:

Andy Serwer is editor-in-chief of Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter.The world’s third-richest person and Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-A, BRK-B) chairman and CEO Warren Buffett is known for his folksiness, pith, and ability to distill complex investing and economic concepts into super simple ideas.

His annual letter to shareholders is often the forum Buffett uses to not only explain Berkshire’s wins and losses over the previous year, but also to espouse certain lessons the most novice investor can heed.

Ahead of the annual Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting on May 5, which Yahoo Finance is livestreaming from Omaha, we’ve collected a few of his notable quotes (as we’ve done before). Many touch on themes and ideas that he comes back to again and again; they all speak to his broad ideas about investing, money, and life in general.

You don’t have to understand advanced investment theory to be a good investor

“To invest successfully, you need not understand beta, efficient markets, modern portfolio theory, option pricing or emerging markets. You may, in fact, be better off knowing nothing of these. That, of course, is not the prevailing view at most business schools, whose finance curriculum tends to be dominated by such subjects. In our view, though, investment students need only two well-taught courses – How to Value a Business, and How to Think About Market Prices.”

-1996 shareholder letter

“…an investor needs some general understanding of business economics as well as the ability to think independently to reach a well-founded positive conclusion. But the investor does not need brilliance nor blinding insights.”

-2000 shareholder letter

Invest for the long term and don’t stray

“Your goal as an investor should simply be to purchase, at a rational price, a part interest in an easily-understandable business whose earnings are virtually certain to be materially higher five, ten and twenty years from now. Over time, you will find only a few companies that meet these standards – so when you see one that qualifies, you should buy a meaningful amount of stock. You must also resist the temptation to stray from your guidelines: If you aren’t willing to own a stock for ten years, don’t even think about owning it for ten minutes.”

-1996 shareholder letter

Know what you know and what you don’t know

“Defining your circle of competence is the most important aspect of investing. It’s not important how large your circle is; you don’t have to be an expert on everything. But knowing where the perimeter of that circle of what you know and what you don’t know and staying inside of it is all important.”

-Talk with to UGA-Terry College of Business students, 2001

“It’s vital, however, that we recognize the perimeter of our ‘circle of competence’ and stay well inside of it. Even then, we will make some mistakes, both with stocks and businesses. But they will not be the disasters that occur, for example, when a long-rising market induces purchases that are based on anticipated price behavior and a desire to be where the action is.”

-2013 shareholder letter

Put your money in index funds

“If a statue is ever erected to honor the person who has done the most for American investors, the handsdown choice should be [Vanguard founder] Jack Bogle. For decades, Jack has urged investors to invest in ultra-low-cost index funds. In his crusade, he amassed only a tiny percentage of the wealth that has typically flowed to managers who have promised their investors large rewards while delivering them nothing – or, as in our bet, less than nothing – of added value.”

-2016 shareholder letter

A image of Warren Buffett towers over Berkshire Hathaway shareholders as they visit and shop at company subsidiaries in Omaha, Neb., Friday, May 5, 2017, at the Berkshire Hathaway shareholders meeting. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) More

Resist stock market FOMO

“The line separating investment and speculation, which is never bright and clear, becomes blurred still further when most market participants have recently enjoyed triumphs. Nothing sedates rationality like large doses of effortless money. After a heady experience of that kind, normally sensible people drift into behavior akin to that of Cinderella at the ball. They know that overstaying the festivities– that is, continuing to speculate in companies that have gigantic valuations relative to the cash they are likely to generate in the future – will eventually bring on pumpkins and mice. But they nevertheless hate to miss a single minute of what is one helluva party. Therefore, the giddy participants all plan to leave just seconds before midnight. There’s a problem, though: They are dancing in a room in which the clocks have no hands.”

Story ContinuesAs General Electric weighs whether to break up the sprawling conglomerate after a year of financial woes, the former vice chairman of the 125-year-old company Bob Wright warned it would be a “fool’s errand” to do so.

“It’s worth more whole,” Wright told FOX Business’ Stuart Varney during an interview on Wednesday. “I don’t think it makes any sense to liquidate the company.”

Instead, GE should consider doing some joint ventures and selling off certain pieces of the company and creating separate partnerships. In recent decades, the conglomerate has relinquished control of many businesses, including NBCUniversal. GE raked in nearly $125 billion in 2016 revenue, but still has more than $130 million in debt.

John Flannery, who replaced a scandal-ridden Jeff Immelt as CEO in August, indicated during a conference call several months ago that the board was considering spinning off some of the conglomerate’s assets.

“There are other issues that have got to be dealt with,” Wright said. “Flannery inherited an incredible mess.”

During GE’s annual meeting, held Wednesday near Pittsburgh, shareholders lambasted Immelt and Jack Welch, who ran the company from 1981 to 2001. Welch hand-selected Immelt -- who’s faced a great deal of blame for the company’s undoing -- as his successor.

Shares of GE dropped to $14 on Wednesday after the credit reporting agency Moody’s Investors Service changed its ratings outlook on the company to Negative.

Related ArticlesFILE PHOTO: A Ford worker inspects paint work on the body of a Ford Expedition SUV at Ford's Kentucky Truck Plant as the No. 2 U.S. automaker ramps up production of two large SUV models in Louisville, Kentucky, U.S., February 9, 2018. REUTERS/Nick Carey/File Photo

By Nick Carey and Paul Lienert

DETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co <F.N> on Wednesday outlined a plan to cut costs and boost profit margins at a faster pace than previously announced, which includes dropping traditional sedan models in North America that have become increasingly unpopular with consumers.

The No. 2 U.S. automaker said it now plans to cut $25.5 billion in costs by 2022, up from $14 billion in cuts it announced last fall.

Ford Chief Executive Jim Hackett told investors the company is undergoing "a profound refocus" of its operations and may exit unprofitable businesses.

"We'll restructure as necessary, and we'll be decisive," he said. "We're going to feed the healthy part of our business," and dispose of marginal operations, Hackett added.

Ford said it expects pretax profit margins of 8 percent globally and 10 percent in North America by 2020, ahead of a previous target of 2022.

The company's stock was up 2.6 percent at $11.40 in after-hours trading.

Responding to a shift in consumer demand to SUVs and pickup trucks, Ford said it planned to trim its North American car portfolio to just two models: the sporty Mustang, which debuted 50 years ago this month, and a new compact crossover called Focus Active starting in 2019.

Ford "will not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America," including the midsize Fusion and full-size Taurus, the company said.

The automaker has been under pressure from Wall Street investors to improve its product lineup and lift flagging profit margins. In 2017, the company's pretax profit fell to $8.4 billion from $10.3 billion.

In March, Ford executives unveiled ambitious plans to shift the struggling automaker's product portfolio from passenger cars to SUVs, add more hybrid and pure electric vehicles, and reduce development and manufacturing costs - aimed at boosting profits and the automaker's share price.

Speaking to reporters on Wednesday as the company reported first-quarter results, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said "we have looked at every single part of the business . . . We are driven to turn this business around."

Ford reported a better-than-expected first-quarter profit, with a 7 percent increase in revenue and a lower effective tax rate offsetting a jump in costs, especially higher commodity prices.

The company reported a first-quarter net profit of $1.74 billion, or 43 cents per share, up from $1.6 billion, or 40 cents per share, a year earlier. Analysts had on average expected earnings per share of 41 cents.

Despite the higher profit, Ford's adjusted pretax profit margin fell to 5.2 percent from 6.4 percent in the same quarter in 2017.

CFO Shanks said the company expected that commodity costs would represent a $1.5 billion "headwind" in 2018, $500 million of which came in the first quarter.

The lion's share of the automaker's quarterly profit was driven by high-margin pickup trucks and SUVs in North America. Europe was the only other region to turn a profit for Ford.

The company's loss in its Asia Pacific region was driven by slumping sales in China, where Ford has just begun to introduce new models.

Shanks said the Lincoln brand still is losing money in China, where it launched in 2015, but now plans to begin local production there in 2020.

Joe Hinrichs, president of global operations, said Ford plans to build a new product its Hermosillo plant in Mexico when it quits production of the Fusion sedan, and will also build a new battery electric vehicle in Mexico.





(Reporting by Nick Carey and Paul Lienert; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Lisa Shumaker)It's all about those sweet, sweet profits.

Ford’s future product lineup will look sparse if you’re searching for a hatchback or a sedan. The Dearborn automaker plans to eliminate a slew of products – C-Max, Fiesta, Focus, Fusion, and Taurus – while focusing on the higher profits that come with crossovers, SUVs, and trucks. That means eliminating a majority of the brand’s sedans while leaving the Ford Mustang and all-new Ford Focus Active. Currently, Ford loses money on the Fiesta, Focus, and Fusion, according to The New York Times.

“Over the next few years, the Ford car portfolio in North America will transition to two vehicles – the best-selling Mustang and the all-new Focus Active crossover coming out next year,” the company said today in its Q1 financial report.

Also check out:

Ford’s new strategy also includes committing to new propulsion choices, such as adding hybrid-electric powertrains to profitable vehicles such as the F-150, Mustang, Explorer, Escape, and Bronco. The company will begin the rollout of its battery electric vehicles with a performance electric model in 2020. The company plans to bring 16 battery-electric vehicles to market by 2022.

“We are committed to taking the appropriate actions to drive profitable growth and maximize the returns of our business over the long term,” said Jim Hackett, president and CEO, in the company’s Q1 financial report. “Where we can raise the returns of underperforming parts of our business by making them more fit, we will. If appropriate returns are not on the horizon, we will shift that capital to where we can play and win.”

2019 Ford Focus Active More

The news Ford is revamping its lineup to eliminate sedans and focus on crossover and SUVs doesn’t mean Ford’s not looking at making new products. The company will explore what it calls “white space” silhouette vehicles – which are vehicles that combine the best attributes of cars and utility vehicles.

Ford doesn’t offer a timeline for when the C-Max, Fiesta, Focus, Fusion, and Taurus will leave the U.S. market. However, in the financial report, Ford says, “For example, by 2020, almost 90 percent of the Ford portfolio in North America will be trucks, utilities, and commercial vehicles.” That’s relatively soon. If you want a Ford sedan, now’s your chance to buy one.

Source: Ford



AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) posted its latest quarterly earnings results after hours Wednesday, which missed analysts’ expectations.

AT&T Inc. More

The U.S. carrier announced first-quarter earnings of 85 cents per share, which came in below the 87 cents per share that Wall Street was calling for. Its revenue tallied up to $38.04 billion, below the $39.31 billion that analysts were projecting in their consensus estimate.

AT&T added 187,000 linear video subscribers during the period, while AT&T added 312,000 subscribers to its streaming service DirecTV Now. The company’s postpaid wireless additions for the period were 49,000 in the U.S.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

The company, which owns the satellite provider DirecTV, has been losing a slew of subscribers to its traditional television packages as more consumers are eliminating cable plans and opting for cheaper streaming services. AT&T is currently in the middle of a trial regarding the company’s $85 billion bid to merge with Time Warner Inc (NYSE:TWX).

The move would make sense for the carrier as buying Time Warner would give it access to cable channels such as HBO and CNN. It would be a way for AT&T to diversify its revenues and give the company a competitive edge in the wireless market through ownership of content, which would help lift it from its spot as the number two carrier in the country.

T stock fell about 4.4% after the bell Wednesday.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post AT&T Inc. Shares Slide on Q1 Earnings Miss appeared first on InvestorPlace.Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) saw its shares soar after the company unveiled its latest quarterly earnings results.

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. More

The company said it brought in adjusted earnings of 11 cents per share for its first quarter of fiscal 2018, topping the 9 cents per share in adjusted earnings that analysts polled by Bloomberg were calling for. Revenue was also strong at $1.65 billion, topping the $1.57 billion that the Wall Street consensus estimate called for, according to Bloomberg.

Advanced Micro Devices saw its revenue increase by 40% compared to the year-ago quarter, thanks in part to its Computing and Graphics Business Segment, which soared 95% year-over-year to $1.12 billion. The company’s Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment declined 12% compared to the year-ago quarter to $532 million, due in part to its semi-custom revenue falling.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

“The first quarter was an outstanding start to 2018 with 40 percent year-over-year revenue growth,” said Lisa Su, AMD’s president and CEO, in a press release. “PC, gaming and datacenter adoption of our new, high-performance products continues to accelerate. We are excited about our long-term roadmaps and focused on delivering sustained revenue growth and profitability.”

For its second quarter of fiscal 2018, the company is projecting $1.72 billion in revenue, give or take $50 million. The Wall Street consensus estimate is calling for revenue of $1.58 billion.

AMD stock was up about 9.7% after the bell Wednesday on the company’s strong quarterly showing.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Crushed Analysts’ Q1 Expectations appeared first on InvestorPlace.Microsoft Becomes Second Most Valuable Company For First Time Since 2015

may not be a favorite in the race to a becoming the country’s first trillion-dollar public company. But recently, after its younger tech peers whizzed past in valuation, Microsoft has become the second most valuable firm--albeit intermittently--for the first time since 2015.

On Tuesday, Microsoft was valued at $714 billion, about $3 billion above Alphabet and Amazon. Only , valued at $838 billion, is higher.

Microsoft had briefly ascended to No. 2 on April 12 and then again on April 16. But it hasn’t been able to maintain its position for long.

On Tuesday, amid worries about higher U.S. Treasury yields and disappointing earnings by other companies that sent the S&P 500 down1.3%, Microsoft rose to No. 2 by virtue of its shares falling less--2.3%--than those of its rivals.

Shares in parent company Alphabet closed down nearly 5% on Tuesday, amid concerns about the earnings it reported a day earlier. Meanwhile shares of e-commerce giant sank 3.8%.

Investors are concerned that tech company earnings over the next couple of weeks will fail to meet lofty expectations. Tech firms were among the best performers of 2017, but they have hit a wall this year as investors rethink their enthusiasm.

Microsoft’s stock has gained momentum under CEO Satya Nadella, who has beefed up the company’s corporate-focused business. The uptick harkens back to a time when the software giant was the most valuable company. At the height of the dot-com boom in 2000, Microsoft was valued at $533.4 billion--about $777 billion in today’s dollars--followed by firms like and . But when the bubble burst, Microsoft’s shares took a beating.

The distraction of an antitrust lawsuit by the Justice Department along with missed opportunities in search and mobile didn’t help.

See original article on Fortune.com

More from Fortune.comWhile small-cap stocks, such as SMART Global Holdings Inc (NASDAQ:SGH) with its market cap of US$862.14M, are popular for their explosive growth, investors should also be aware of their balance sheet to judge whether the company can survive a downturn. Semiconductor companies, even ones that are profitable, are more likely to be higher risk. Evaluating financial health as part of your investment thesis is crucial. I believe these basic checks tell most of the story you need to know. Though, this commentary is still very high-level, so I recommend you dig deeper yourself into SGH here.

How does SGH’s operating cash flow stack up against its debt?

SGH’s debt levels have fallen from US$242.70M to US$177.29M over the last 12 months , which comprises of short- and long-term debt. With this debt repayment, the current cash and short-term investment levels stands at US$22.44M , ready to deploy into the business. Moving onto cash from operations, its small level of operating cash flow means calculating cash-to-debt wouldn’t be too useful, though these low levels of cash means that operational efficiency is worth a look. As the purpose of this article is a high-level overview, I won’t be looking at this today, but you can assess some of SGH’s operating efficiency ratios such as ROA here.

Can SGH pay its short-term liabilities?

Looking at SGH’s most recent US$239.87M liabilities, the company has been able to meet these commitments with a current assets level of US$346.99M, leading to a 1.45x current account ratio. Usually, for Semiconductor companies, this is a suitable ratio since there is a bit of a cash buffer without leaving too much capital in a low-return environment.

NasdaqGS:SGH Historical Debt Apr 25th 18 More

Can SGH service its debt comfortably?

Since total debt levels have outpaced equities, SGH is a highly leveraged company. This is not unusual for small-caps as debt tends to be a cheaper and faster source of funding for some businesses. No matter how high the company’s debt, if it can easily cover the interest payments, it’s considered to be efficient with its use of excess leverage. A company generating earnings after interest and tax at least three times its net interest payments is considered financially sound. In SGH’s case, the ratio of 5.07x suggests that interest is appropriately covered, which means that debtors may be willing to loan the company more money, giving SGH ample headroom to grow its debt facilities.

Next Steps:

At its current level of cash flow coverage, SGH has room for improvement to better cushion for events which may require debt repayment. However, the company will be able to pay all of its upcoming liabilities from its current short-term assets. Keep in mind I haven’t considered other factors such as how SGH has been performing in the past. I recommend you continue to research SMART Global Holdings to get a better picture of the stock by looking at:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for SGH’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for SGH’s outlook. Valuation: What is SGH worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether SGH is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Performing Stocks: Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.While small-cap stocks, such as ATN International Inc (NASDAQ:ATNI) with its market cap of US$1.06B, are popular for their explosive growth, investors should also be aware of their balance sheet to judge whether the company can survive a downturn. Telecom businesses operating in the environment facing headwinds from current disruption, even ones that are profitable, are more likely to be higher risk. Assessing first and foremost the financial health is crucial. I believe these basic checks tell most of the story you need to know. However, I know these factors are very high-level, so I suggest you dig deeper yourself into ATNI here.

Does ATNI generate enough cash through operations?

ATNI’s debt level has been constant at around US$155.79M over the previous year comprising of short- and long-term debt. At this constant level of debt, ATNI currently has US$215.03M remaining in cash and short-term investments , ready to deploy into the business. Additionally, ATNI has produced US$145.73M in operating cash flow during the same period of time, leading to an operating cash to total debt ratio of 93.54%, signalling that ATNI’s current level of operating cash is high enough to cover debt. This ratio can also be a sign of operational efficiency as an alternative to return on assets. In ATNI’s case, it is able to generate 0.94x cash from its debt capital.

Can ATNI meet its short-term obligations with the cash in hand?

With current liabilities at US$161.71M, it appears that the company has been able to meet these obligations given the level of current assets of US$342.93M, with a current ratio of 2.12x. Usually, for Telecom companies, this is a suitable ratio since there is a bit of a cash buffer without leaving too much capital in a low-return environment.

NasdaqGS:ATNI Historical Debt Apr 25th 18 More

Is ATNI’s debt level acceptable?

With debt at 18.77% of equity, ATNI may be thought of as appropriately levered. ATNI is not taking on too much debt commitment, which can be restrictive and risky for equity-holders. We can test if ATNI’s debt levels are sustainable by measuring interest payments against earnings of a company. Ideally, earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) should cover net interest by at least three times. For ATNI, the ratio of 8.58x suggests that interest is appropriately covered, which means that lenders may be inclined to lend more money to the company, as it is seen as safe in terms of payback.

Next Steps:

ATNI’s high cash coverage and low debt levels indicate its ability to utilise its borrowings efficiently in order to generate ample cash flow. Furthermore, the company exhibits an ability to meet its near term obligations should an adverse event occur. This is only a rough assessment of financial health, and I’m sure ATNI has company-specific issues impacting its capital structure decisions. I recommend you continue to research ATN International to get a more holistic view of the stock by looking at:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for ATNI’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for ATNI’s outlook. Valuation: What is ATNI worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether ATNI is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Performing Stocks: Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.Ford NASCAR Burnout More

Ford

Ford beats analysts expectations for Q1 earnings.

Ford is in the midst of a corporate restructuring.

Ford announced it will not invest in new sedans in North America but will keep Mustang and a new crossover with the Focus nameplate.

Ford reported first-quarter earnings after the markets closed on Wednesday and beat analysts expectations, with a profit of $0.43 per share and revenue of $42 billion.

"We are committed to taking the appropriate actions to drive profitable growth and maximize the returns of our business over the long term," CEO Jim Hackett said in a statement.

"Where we can raise the returns of underperforming parts of our business by making them more fit, we will. If appropriate returns are not on the horizon, we will shift that capital to where we can play and win."

Winning for Ford means killing off its sedans.

"Given declining consumer demand and product profitability, the company will not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America," the carmaker said.

"Over the next few years, the Ford car portfolio in North America will transition to two vehicles – the best-selling Mustang and the all-new Focus Active crossover coming out next year."

Consumers have made a decisive shift away from four-doors to SUVs in recently years. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles moved away from sedan over a year ago, while General Motors has remained committed but has dialed back production.

Ford said that 90% of its US lineup would be pickups, SUVs, and commercial vehicles.

Ford shares finished the trading day on Wednesday up just over 1%, to $11. Year-to-date, Ford stock has declined over 12%.

Ford Chart More

Markets Insider

NOW WATCH: Ford replacing its CEO points to the short-termism on Wall Street

See Also:

FOLLOW US: On Facebook for more car and transportation content!Say hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreOver the past 10 years The Williams Companies Inc (NYSE:WMB) has returned an average of 4.00% per year from dividend payouts. The company currently pays out a dividend yield of 5.32% to shareholders, making it a relatively attractive dividend stock. Does Williams Companies tick all the boxes of a great dividend stock? Below, I’ll take you through my analysis. Check out our latest analysis for Williams Companies

5 checks you should do on a dividend stock

When researching a dividend stock, I always follow the following screening criteria:

Is it paying an annual yield above 75% of dividend payers?

Has its dividend been stable over the past (i.e. no missed payments or significant payout cuts)?

Has it increased its dividend per share amount over the past?

Is it able to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings?

Will it have the ability to keep paying its dividends going forward?

NYSE:WMB Historical Dividend Yield Apr 25th 18 More

Does Williams Companies pass our checks?

The company currently pays out 45.60% of its earnings as a dividend, according to its trailing twelve-month data, which means that the dividend is covered by earnings. Going forward, analysts expect WMB’s payout to increase to 107.73% of its earnings, which leads to a dividend yield of 6.30%. However, EPS is forecasted to fall to $0.94 in the upcoming year. Therefore, although payout is expected to increase, the fall in earnings may not equate to higher dividend income. This also brings about uncertainty around the sustainability of the payout ratio. If there’s one type of stock you want to be reliable, it’s dividend stocks and their stable income-generating ability. WMB has increased its DPS from $0.4 to $1.36 in the past 10 years. During this period it has not missed a payment, as one would expect for a company increasing its dividend. This is an impressive feat, which makes WMB a true dividend rockstar. Compared to its peers, Williams Companies has a yield of 5.32%, which is high for Oil and Gas stocks.

Next Steps:

With these dividend metrics in mind, I definitely rank Williams Companies as a strong income stock, and is worth further research for anyone who considers dividends an important part of their portfolio strategy. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, I recommend taking sufficient time to understand its core business and determine whether the company and its investment properties suit your overall goals. I’ve put together three essential factors you should further examine:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for WMB’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for WMB’s outlook. Valuation: What is WMB worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether WMB is currently mispriced by the market. Other Dividend Rockstars: Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.Dividends can be underrated but they form a large part of investment returns, playing an important role in compounding returns in the long run. Cousins Properties Incorporated (NYSE:CUZ) has returned to shareholders over the past 10 years, an average dividend yield of 4.00% annually. Does Cousins Properties tick all the boxes of a great dividend stock? Below, I’ll take you through my analysis. See our latest analysis for Cousins Properties

5 checks you should use to assess a dividend stock

Whenever I am looking at a potential dividend stock investment, I always check these five metrics:

Is it the top 25% annual dividend yield payer?

Does it consistently pay out dividends without missing a payment of significantly cutting payout?

Has the amount of dividend per share grown over the past?

Can it afford to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings?

Will the company be able to keep paying dividend based on the future earnings growth?

NYSE:CUZ Historical Dividend Yield Apr 25th 18 More

Does Cousins Properties pass our checks?

The company currently pays out 46.12% of its earnings as a dividend, according to its trailing twelve-month data, which is rather low compared to other REITs. Generally, REITs are expected to pay out the majority of its earnings to provide a regular income stream for their investors. Furthermore, analysts have not forecasted a dividends per share for the future, which makes it hard to determine the yield shareholders should expect, and whether the current payout is sustainable, moving forward. If there is one thing that you want to be reliable in your life, it’s dividend stocks and their constant income stream. Not only have dividend payouts from Cousins Properties fallen over the past 10 years, it has also been highly volatile during this time, with drops of over 25% in some years. These characteristics do not bode well for income investors seeking reliable stream of dividends. Relative to peers, Cousins Properties produces a yield of 3.05%, which is on the low-side for REITs stocks.

Next Steps:

After digging a little deeper into Cousins Properties’s yield, it’s easy to see why you should be cautious investing in the company just for the dividend. On the other hand, if you are not strictly just a dividend investor, the stock could still be offering some interesting investment opportunities. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, you should always research extensively before deciding whether or not a stock is an appropriate investment for you. I always recommend analysing the company’s fundamentals and underlying business before making an investment decision. Below, I’ve compiled three fundamental aspects you should further research:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for CUZ’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for CUZ’s outlook. Valuation: What is CUZ worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether CUZ is currently mispriced by the market. Dividend Rockstars: Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.It will take months or years to tell if the tax cuts President Trump signed at the end of 2017 will boost economic growth or help create jobs, as intended. But little by little, we’re getting more evidence of what is likely to change under the new tax regime.

Some of the changes will be big. Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation has published new estimates of the ways people will file their taxes for 2018, the first year most of the new tax provisions will be in effect. Here are 3 big changes:

Far fewer people deducting state and local taxes. One of the most disruptive changes to the tax code is a new limit of $10,000 on the deductibility of state and local taxes, which used to be subject to no limit. The JCT estimates the number of people claiming the so-called SALT deduction will drop from 42.3 million for 2017 to 16.6 million for 2018—a 61% decline. For many filers, the new threshold for the SALT deduction means there will be no point itemizing, because their tax bill will end up lower using the standard deduction, which nearly doubled under the new law to $12,000 for individuals. About 7% of filers will end up with a higher tax bill under the new law, in large part because they have a large state and local tax bill and will lose more through the new SALT limit than other provisions of the bill will make up for.

Source: Joint Committee on Taxation More

Far fewer people deducting mortgage interest. The JCT predicts the number of taxpayers claiming a mortgage interest deduction will fall from 32.3 million for 2017 to 13.8 million for 2018—a 57% decline. The Trump tax cuts made only one significant change regarding mortgage interest, by lowering the maximum amount of deductible mortgage debt on a new loan from $1 million to $750,000. That affects very few home owners. But the new limit on the SALT deduction, along with the bigger standard deduction, will simply limit the benefits of itemizing for millions of taxpayers.

Overall, the JCT expects the number of taxpayers choosing to itemize, for any reason, to fall from 46.5 million for 2017 to 18 million for 2018 – a 61% drop. For many, that will make filing taxes simpler and cheaper.

There could be unintended consequences, however – changes in the deductibility of mortgage interest could affect home values, over time. The tax break for mortgage interest essentially makes owning a home cheaper, since borrowers earn something akin to a refund on a portion of the interest they pay. So if fewer people claim that deduction, the net cost of home ownership goes up. A lower tax bill, overall, might make it a wash for many home owners. But in some regions or parts of the market, the tax changes might also change the incentives for buying (or selling) a home.

A windfall for businesses. Big businesses known as C corporations will enjoy a 40% reduction in the corporate tax rate, from 35% to 21%. Yahoo Finance and many other news outlets have reported extensively on what big companies are likely to do with the tax savings, with many buying back shares or raising dividends. Some companies, such as Apple, have committed to new investments. And dozens of companies have given employees one-time bonuses.

The JCT research provides new insight on how the tax cuts will benefit smaller businesses. The effective tax rate for sole proprietorships—which account for about 73% of all businesses—will drop from 24.7% to 19.8%, according to the JCT. That’s a hefty 4.9 percentage points, a bigger decline than most individuals will see, since the effective tax rate for individuals is expected to fall from 29.1% in 2017 to 26.7% for 2018, or 2.4 percentage points.

Most privately owned businesses will benefit from the tax cuts, but those owned by the wealthy will benefit the most. The JCT found that 44% of the net benefit of a new tax break for privately owned businesses will accrue to individuals with incomes of $1 million or more, while just 7.5% of the net gain will accrue to individuals with incomes of $100,000 or less.Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon, questions witnesses during a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on election security in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, March 21, 2018. At a news conference yesterday, the Senate Intelligence Committee said the U.S. needs to do more -- and quickly -- to prevent a repeat of hacking into voting systems by Russians or others ahead of this years midterm elections.

A Senate hearing Tuesday indicated the politics of the tax overhaul haven’t changed since it passed in December, with Republicans singing its praises as an economist booster and Democrats torching it as a broken promise that mostly benefits the wealthiest.

Senator Ron Wyden, the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, zeroed in on a new report by the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation which found that almost half of the benefit of the 20 percent deduction for "pass-through" businesses like partnerships and LLCs would flow to those making $1 million and up.

More from Bloomberg.com: Flight Records Illuminate Mystery of Trump’s Moscow Nights

In 2018, almost $18 billion of the $40 billion tax break would go to $1 million-or-more entities, the JCT said. By 2024, the figure for those earners rises to almost $32 billion of the $60 billion in pass-through tax breaks that year under the Republican law.

“People don’t think millionaires are the regular garden-variety small businesses on Main Street,” Wyden said, asking witnesses to explain that finding.

The GOP tax law created a 20 percent deduction for pass-through businesses, whose income is reported on their owners’ personal tax returns. Congress tried to bar wealthy owners of service businesses from getting the break -- leaving out many doctors, lawyers and hedge fund managers, but tax experts have said there are loopholes in the legislation that could allow for workarounds.

More from Bloomberg.com: Sessions Declines to Recuse Himself From Probe Into Trump Lawyer

Technical Corrections

Doug Holtz-Eakin, an economist at the Republican-aligned group American Action Forum, which supports the tax law, defended the provision during the hearing as improving incentives to save invest and work. He said it would have been incomplete to stop at simply a corporate tax cut and not lower pass-through taxes as well, and added that benefits to pass-through owners will trickle down to workers.

"This is the foundation of the economics of the bill, which is improved incentives to save, invest and work," said Holtz-Eakin.

Wyden of Oregon said the law was “shaping up to be one of history’s most expensive broken promises. Probably go right up there with ‘we will be greeted as liberators’” -- a reference to how some Iraq war proponents previewed the mission before U.S. forces invaded in 2003.

More from Bloomberg.com: White House Deterring Republicans From Defending Pruitt, Sources Say

Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Republican chairman of the panel, said "every member who actively participated in drafting the bill should be proud of the new tax law."

“We were proud when we passed it, and we are even prouder now as all across the nation, evidence affirms that the new law is tangibly benefiting millions of Americans,” he said. “More than 500 companies have announced wage hikes, increased benefits, more jobs, and increased investment or expansion in the United States thanks to the new law.”

Hatch indicated that Congress should make technical corrections to the law, calling that “par for the course for any major tax bill.”

‘Fiscal Irresponsibility’

Legislation to make any tax rule fixes would require Democratic support -- so far, Republican leaders have signaled they won’t vote on a stand-alone bill before congressional elections in November.

Numerous Democrats up for re-election in states that President Donald Trump carried -- including Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio -- also criticized the law, which Republicans are hoping will help their candidates.

McCaskill, a top GOP target who faces re-election in a state Trump won by almost 19 points, knocked the tax law as a deficit-raiser that will disproportionately benefit top earners.

“It’s truly stunning, this kind of fiscal irresponsibility,” she said.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Four Months Later, Democrats Still Fiercely Oppose the GOP Tax Law on bloombergpolitics.comBERLIN (Reuters) - German sportswear maker Puma is working on contingency plans to move some production from China to other Asian markets if U.S. tariffs are imposed on footwear, its chief executive said on Tuesday.

Puma currently makes about a third of its products in China and is looking into moving production of goods for the U.S. market to countries like Vietnam and Indonesia, Puma CEO Bjorn Gulden told a conference call for journalists.

Gulden said moving production could take up to 12 months, adding that capacity freed up in Chinese factories could also be used to make products for the booming Chinese market. Other impacts of tariffs could be lower margins or higher prices, he added.





(Reporting by Emma Thomasson; Editing by Tom Sims)Apple aapl Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook will meet with President Donald Trump at the White House on Wednesday as the company looks to head off a brewing trade war between the U.S. and China.

The sit-down between Cook and Trump will take place in the Oval Office on Wednesday afternoon and be closed to the press, according to the president’s official schedule released by the White House.

The Trump administration’s decision to pursue tariffs on as much as $150 billion in Chinese goods has stoked trade tensions with Beijing that could affect Apple’s business in Asia. The company’s sprawling production chain is also centered in China.

Last month, Cook told attendees at a conference in Beijing that he hoped that China and the U.S. could resolve their differences on trade.

“The countries that embrace openness do exceptional and the countries that don’t, don’t,” he said. “It’s not a matter of carving things up between sides. I’m going to encourage that calm heads prevail.”

A trade war could place Apple in the Chinese government’s cross-hairs. A Communist Party newspaper last month listed the iPhone maker among the American companies that would be “most damaged” if a trade war erupted.

Apple didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment after regular business hours.

Cook was among the guests on Tuesday evening at the first state dinner of Trump’s presidency, a formal fete for French President Emmanuel Macron. The Apple chief was accompanied by Lisa Jackson, Apple’s vice president of environment and government affairs and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency under President Barack Obama.Tim Cook, Chief Executive Officer of Apple Inc., takes part in an education-focused event at Lane Technical College Prep High School in Chicago, Illinois, U.S., March 27, 2018. REUTERS/John Gress

By Roberta Rampton and David Shepardson

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump and two top aides talked about trade issues with Apple Inc chief Tim Cook on Wednesday as the White House prepares to try to avert a trade war with China, a manufacturing hub for the iPhone maker.

Cook, who has urged calm during the recent flare in U.S. trade tensions with China, held private talks with Trump in the Oval Office. He also spoke with the president's top economic adviser Larry Kudlow and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.

Trump is preparing to send a delegation to China to try to head off a trade war that stands to harm Apple, the world's largest technology company, and other hardware makers that build products in China.

Trump has threatened a new round of $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese products that could target cellphones, computers and other consumer goods. China retaliated against an initial round of $50 billion in tariffs.

The meeting, which the White House said had been in the works for a couple of weeks, came the day after Cook sat at Trump's head table at his first state dinner, held in honour of French President Emmanuel Macron.

A White House official described the meeting as "good" but neither the White House nor Apple provided details of the discussions.

Trump said earlier on Wednesday that he was looking forward to seeing Cook. "We will be talking about many things, including how the U.S. has been treated unfairly for many years, by many countries, on trade," he said on Twitter.

Cook also had strong relations with Trump's predecessor in the White House, Democratic President Barack Obama. He sat at the head table for Obama's 2015 state dinner honouring Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Cook has been to China at least three times since October, including paying a visit to Xi.





'GOOD GUY'

Cook has become one of Trump's favourite CEOs to name-check in speeches. This was a surprising turn after a rocky start to their relationship. During his election campaign, Trump urged supporters to boycott Apple and criticized the company for making its products in China.

As president, Trump has called Cook a “good guy” and mentioned him by name at least 10 times during public remarks, including during his speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January and during several high-profile interviews.

The president frequently uses Cook and Apple as an example of how he says his tax cut package is creating jobs because it spurred the company to repatriate earnings it had held overseas.

Trump has frequently said he would not consider his presidency successful unless Apple builds manufacturing plants in the United States.

Apple has a market capitalization of $835 billion and 123,000 employees, 84,000 of whom are in the United States. The company said in January it plans to spend $30 billion in capital expenditures in the United States over the next five years, $10 billion of that on data centres.

Apple said its spending will create 20,000 new jobs through hiring at existing campuses in Cupertino and Austin as well as at a planned new campus.

Cook has also developed ties with Trump's daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner, both senior advisers at the White House who work on tech training and government IT modernization issues.

His praise for Cook aside, Trump, a Republican, has had a sometimes tense relationship with the U.S. technology industry, based in Democratic strongholds such as California's Silicon Valley and in Seattle. He has clashed with the tech sector on issues including trade, immigration and the environment.

Cook has publicly objected to Trump's decision to end a program protecting from deportation young immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children. He was also among business leaders who criticized Trump after the president cast equal blame on white nationalists and anti-racism activists for violence last year in Charlottesville, Virginia.





(Reporting by David Shepardson, Roberta Rampton, Jeff Mason and Susan Heavey in Washington and Stephen Nellis in San Francisco; Editing by David Gregorio, Jeffrey Benkoe and Frances Kerry)Qualcomm Incorporated (QCOM) just released its latest quarterly financial results, posting adjusted earnings of $0.80 per share and revenues of $5.23 billion.

Qualcomm Incorporated (QCOM) just released its latest quarterly financial results, posting adjusted earnings of $0.80 per share and revenues of $5.23 billion.

Currently, QCOM is a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), but that could change based on today’s results. Shares of the company have lost about 11% over the past month and were basically flat during regular trading hours today.

The stock is currently up 2.5% to $51.00 per share in after-hours trading shortly after its earnings report was released.

Qualcomm:

Beat earnings estimates. The company posted adjusted earnings of $0.80 per share, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $0.70. Investors should note that this consensus projection has trended downward over the duration of the quarter.

Beat revenue estimates. The company saw non-GAAP revenue figures of $5.23 billion, topping our consensus estimate of $5.20 billion. Revenue was $5.26 billion on a GAAP basis.

Qualcomm had cash and cash equivalents of $39.6 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $28.9 billion a year ago and $39.9 billion at the end of Q1. Operating cash flow in Q2 was $0.5 billion.

The first and second quarter of Qualcomm’s fiscal 2018 were affected by its dispute with Apple AAPL and its contract manufacturers, as well as the previously disclosed dispute with another licensee.

“Our fiscal second quarter results reflect better than expected performance in our semiconductor business and lower operating expenses,” said CEO Steve Mollenkopf. “Looking forward, we remain committed to driving improved performance in fiscal 2019, consistent with our prior guidance. We are making good progress on executing our $1 billion cost plan, are focused on closing our pending acquisition of NXP and are well positioned to drive the global commercialization of 5G.”

Qualcomm expects third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue to fall in the range of $4.8 billion to $5.6 billion. This would represent a decrease of 11% to an increase of 4%. Non-GAAP earnings are expected to come in at $0.65 to $0.75 per share. Our latest Zacks Consensus Estimate for Q3 was calling for earnings of $0.73 per share.

Here’s a graph that looks at Qualcomm’s recent earnings performance:

QUALCOMM Incorporated Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise

QUALCOMM Incorporated Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | QUALCOMM Incorporated Quote

Qualcomm Incorporated is a world leader in 3G, 4G and next-generation wireless technologies. Qualcomm Incorporated includes Qualcomm's licensing business, QTL, and the vast majority of its patent portfolio. Qualcomm Technologies operates, along with its subsidiaries, substantially all of Qualcomm's engineering, research and development functions, and substantially all of its products and services businesses, including its semiconductor business, QCT.

Check back later for our full analysis on QCOM’s earnings report!

Want more market analysis from this author? Make sure to follow @Ryan_McQueeney on Twitter!

Investor Alert: Breakthroughs Pending

A medical advance is now at the flashpoint between theory and realization. Billions of dollars in research have poured into it. Companies are already generating substantial revenue, and even more wondrous products are in the pipeline.

Cures for a variety of deadly diseases are in sight, and so are big potential profits for early investors. Zacks names 5 stocks to buy now.

Click here to see them >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



QUALCOMM Incorporated (QCOM) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Apple Inc. (AAPL) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchAdvanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) just released its latest quarterly financial results, posting adjusted earnings of $0.11 per share and revenues of $1.65 billion.

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) just released its latest quarterly financial results, posting adjusted earnings of $0.11 per share and revenues of $1.65 billion.

Currently, AMD is a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), but that could change based on today’s results. Shares of the company have lost about 4% over the past month, including a 3.7% loss during regular trading hours today.

The stock is currently up 7.9% to $10.46 per share in after-hours trading shortly after its earnings report was released.

Investors should note that AMD’s new financial results were reported under a new revenue accounting standard. Past results were adjusted to reflect this new standard in the report.

AMD:

Beat earnings estimates. The company posted adjusted earnings of $0.11 per share, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $0.09. Investors should note that this consensus projection has trended upward over the duration of the quarter.

Beat revenue estimates. The company saw revenue figures of $1.65 billion, beating our consensus estimate of $1.55 billion. Total revenue was up 40% year over year.

Computing and Graphics segment revenue was $1.12 billion, up 95% year over year. Segment operating income was $138 million compared to an operating loss of $21 million a year ago. Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment revenue was $532 million, down 12% from the prior-year period.

“The first quarter was an outstanding start to 2018 with 40 percent year-over-year revenue growth,” said CEO Dr. Lisa Su. “PC, gaming and datacenter adoption of our new, high-performance products continues to accelerate. We are excited about our long-term roadmaps and focused on delivering sustained revenue growth and profitability.”

For the second quarter of fiscal 2018, AMD expects revenue to fall in the range of $1.675 billion to $1.775 billion. This is higher than our current consensus estimate of $1.58 billion.

Here’s a graph that looks at AMD’s recent earnings performance:

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Quote

Advanced Micro Devices is a semiconductor company that develops processors, including x86-based microprocessors and graphics processing units (GPUs).

Check back later for our full analysis on AMD’s earnings report!

Want more market analysis from this author? Make sure to follow @Ryan_McQueeney on Twitter!

Investor Alert: Breakthroughs Pending

A medical advance is now at the flashpoint between theory and realization. Billions of dollars in research have poured into it. Companies are already generating substantial revenue, and even more wondrous products are in the pipeline.

Cures for a variety of deadly diseases are in sight, and so are big potential profits for early investors. Zacks names 5 stocks to buy now.

Click here to see them >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchThe telecommunications company reported earnings and revenues that missed analyst expectations that sent shares falling further. The stock is already down over 10 percent this year. Chipotle Mexican Grill CMG shares soared 10 percent in extended trading after an impressive earnings report.3M Co (NYSE:MMM) investors certainly aren’t having fun, as shares fell 6.8% on Tuesday and sit just $9 above its 52-week low near $192. Ironically, 3M stock set that low on April 25, 2017. Only back then, shares of MMM stock weren’t in a total free-fall.

What’s got 3M down, anyway? The company missed earnings per share estimates by a penny, but did beat on revenue expectations. Given that shares had fallen about 17% from the highs coming into the report, 3M probably could have gotten away with the penny-per-share miss.

But, then management had to lower guidance.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

When the stock market’s not in a good mood, missing earnings and coming up short on guidance — no matter how much the stock has already suffered — is a recipe for disaster. From the midpoint of management’s outlook, 3M now expects earnings per share of $10.37 vs. $10.45 in the prior outlook and organic sales growth of 3.5% rather than 4%.

Are they massive cutbacks? No. But, like I said, with today’s current environment, it’s not good to come up short.

Where to Now for 3M Stock?

The question investors now have to ask themselves is simple: Buy, sell or hold? It’s tough to hit the exits with shares down about 22% from the highs, as nobody wants to realize that kind of loss. Some may consider selling out of 3M and rolling into Honeywell International Inc. (NYSE:HON). They could log the loss for 3M and buy into HON without worrying about a wash sale and still stay long the industry — assuming they’re still bullish.

After all, Honeywell just beat on earnings per share and revenue results, while also boosting guidance, not cutting it like 3M.

If that’s not an option, the question becomes whether to buy or stay long 3M. Even the high end of management’s guidance ($10.55) barely comes in ahead of consensus estimates of $10.53 per share. Basing it off management’s outlook, 3M stock trades at more than 19 times this year’s earnings.

For that valuation, we get 13% earnings growth this year and less than 10% next year (although this figure may not be that accurate, now). On the revenue front, analysts expect about 6.5% growth this year.

Honeywell has about the same growth profile: 12.7% earnings growth this year and ~10% next year, along with revenue growth of 6% and 4% in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Shares trade at just over 18 times this year’s earnings.

For a slightly lower valuation, we’re essentially getting the same growth. Although, HON’s 2% dividend is lower than 3M’s 2.5% payout. Am I saying that 3M is a horrendous company? Absolutely not. It’s a high quality company just like HON. But, one company has some mojo (albeit not a ton) and the other has none.





Trading MMM Stock

While it’s been an ugly slide for 3M stock, the bulls actually have one notable opportunity.

Should You Buy 3M Co (MMM) Stock After Earnings Plunge? More

Click to Enlarge

MMM stock is only slightly oversold at this point, with a relative strength index (RSI) of 27. Below 30 is technically an oversold position, but this reading can easily slip to the low-20s, if not even lower. That could time up with the hopefully strong layer of support sitting just below current levels.

Highlighted by a blue rectangle, the $190-$195 area should act as support for MMM stock. If it doesn’t hold as support, it’s honestly hard to say where 3M will end up. It’s already below all three major moving averages and sitting on hefty losses. Daring bulls or those who love the fundamental story can take a stab near the traced out area above.

For reference, here’s an updated HON chart from a few weeks ago:

trading HON stock MoreCongratulations! You're ready to leave the 9-to-5 grind and reap the rewards of your hard-earned savings. Here's a tough question: What do you do with that massive nest egg?Social Security serves as a key source of income for millions of seniors today. But new data tells us that retirees are growing less confident in the program. Only 45% of retired workers think Social Security will continue to provide the same benefits it does today going forward, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. That's a drop from the 51% of retirees who felt the same way last year. The question is: Are today's seniors being overly pessimistic? Or are they really on to something?

The future of Social Security: Shaky but relatively certain

Many workers and retirees alike are under the impression that Social Security is at risk of going bankrupt. The reality, however, is that the program can't actually run out of money because it's funded by payroll taxes. Therefore, as long as we have a workforce and continue to take out those taxes, seniors will receive benefits in some shape or form.

Senior man on laptop, looking concerned More

IMAGE SOURCE: GETTY IMAGES.

That said, according to the latest trustee report, Social Security's trust funds are set to run dry in 2034. Once that happens, the program might need to cut benefits by as much as 23%, which would no doubt constitute a major blow for current and future recipients. On the other hand, Congress has more than a decade and a half to intervene with a fix, and given the number of seniors who would no doubt be pushed well below the poverty line were those cuts to actually happen, lawmakers have a lot to lose by sitting back and doing nothing.

But even if benefits don't wind up getting slashed in the future, recipients still face a very real problem: Social Security isn't keeping up with senior spending. The program's meager cost-of-living increases have not done a good enough job of helping beneficiaries maintain their buying power in the face of inflation, partly because those boosts have been minor or nonexistent in recent years, and partly because they get eaten up by rising Medicare premiums before seniors even get their hands on them.

All of this means one thing for today's workers who are planning to fall back on Social Security in retirement: Be careful about relying too heavily on those benefits, and save for your own future instead. Otherwise, you might be in for a major financial struggle down the line.

Building your nest egg

Let's be clear about one thing: Social Security was never designed to sustain seniors on its own. In a best-case scenario -- meaning, none of the future cuts we talked about -- those benefits will replace about 40% of the average worker's pre-retirement income. Most seniors, however, need close to double that amount to live comfortably (not lavishly, mind you -- just comfortably). It's therefore on you, individually, to amass enough savings to pick up where Social Security leaves off.

Now the good news is that today's annual contribution limits allow for some serious savings in a 401(k) or IRA. Workers under 50 can put away up to $18,500 a year in the former and $5,500 in the latter, and these limits increase to $24,500 and $6,500, respectively, among those 50 and older.

Of course, not everyone can max out a 401(k) or even an IRA year after year, but if you commit to setting a decent chunk of cash aside each month, and invest that money wisely, you could accumulate a fair amount of wealth. Imagine you're 37 with no savings and start setting aside $400 a month until age 67. Let's also assume you invest heavily in stocks, and therefore generate an average annual 7% return on your savings (that 7% is actually a couple of points below the market's average). At the end of the day, you'll be sitting on $453,000, which, combined with whatever you do get out of Social Security, could make for a pretty decent retirement. Boost that monthly savings rate to $600, meanwhile, and you'll have $680,000 to work with.

Story ContinuesShares of Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE:PM) have certainly been taken out to the woodshed lately. PM stock has dropped a staggering 20% over the past five trading days following a disappointing earnings report. Undoubtedly a selloff was warranted due to the tepid earnings, but the recent carnage has now gotten a little extreme, both from a technical and fundamental perspective. I look for PM to find its footing near current levels.

Philip Morris reported earnings on April 19 that were a mixed bag. Earnings were a beat at $1 per share compared to consensus estimates of just 90 cents. Revenues missed, however, coming in at $6.90 billion versus consensus of $7.04 billion. Most importantly, 2018 guidance was lowered slightly to a range of $5.25 to $5.40.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Assuming the lower end of the guidance and using the closing price of $82.49 gives a forward P/E of 15.7 for PM stock, well below the five-year average of 20.24 and nearing the lows of 14.33. PM stock is getting to be a value play, especially on further weakness.

Phillip Morris Stock Chart



Click to Enlarge



A look at the weekly chart going back to 2012 shows that PM is fast approaching major long term support at the $75 level. MACD is also at the most extreme reading over the past six years, with prior instances signaling significant short term lows.

Yesterday’s price action was also encouraging, with PM stock trading down to $80.64 before reversing to close well off the lows at $82.70. This type of reversal pattern is usually a sign the sellers may have become exhausted, especially after such a brutal five day drop. A bounce of some sort would not be unlikely.

PM options are trading in the 63rd percentile of implied volatility (IV) which means option prices are comparatively expensive. This favors option selling strategies when constructing trades. So to position for long term support to hold in PM stock, a put credit spread makes sense.

Phillip Morris Trade Idea

Buy PM Sep $70 puts and sell PM Sep $75 puts for a 95-cent net credit.

Maximum gain on the trade is $95 per spread with maximum risk of $405 per spread. Return on risk is 23.5%. The short $75 strike price is right at long term support and provides a 9% downside cushion to the $82.49 closing price of PM stock. The $75 strike price also implies a 14.29 forward P/E, a multiyear low in valuation.

Tim may hold some of the aforementioned securities in one or more of his newsletters. Anyone interested in finding out more about Tim and his option-based strategies can go to https://marketfy.com/item/options-and-volatility.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Phillip Morris International Inc. Has Been Smoked, But It May Be Time To Light Up Again appeared first on InvestorPlace.It’s earnings season and one underdog looking worthy of a wager is Under Armour Inc (NYSE:UAA). But if you’re going to bet on ‘da bulls continuing to move UAA stock up the field on the price chart; a bull call spread remains in the starting line-up. Let me explain.

Under Armour Stock More

Source: Shutterstock

For UAA stock bulls — and bears for that matter — it’s almost officially game time once again. The athletics retailer is set to announce earnings next Tuesday on May 1 in front of the opening bell. Last quarter, investors jumped aggressively into shares following the company’s mixed, but in our view, mostly better-than-expected or feared quarterly results.

Can Under Armour (mostly) deliver again off the field of play — and convincingly so, on the playing pitch of the UAA stock chart for a second time in a row?

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

With the expectations bar set reasonably low and the Street forecasting a loss of 4 cents and sales of $1.1 billion, I personally like the long game in UAA stock. And while I wouldn’t call Deutsche Bank a true fan, an upgrade Monday from “sell” to “hold” which cited Under Armour’s “rapidly growing” growth overseas does have us think more of Wall Street’s resident bear population may be jumping on the ‘da bulls bandwagon soon enough.

UAA Stock Daily Chart

It has been nearly three weeks since last penning a bullish article on UAA stock at InvestorPlace. But despite shares being off nearly 6% Under Armour has continued to put together technical signs a meaningful bottom is in place and a new bullish trend is underway.

Following UAA’s March confirmation of an emerging uptrend, shares have continued to hold the key, earnings-driven price support with last week’s additional testing. The price zone is now also backed by a Golden Cross pattern as the 50-day simple moving average has crossed above the 200-day simple moving average.





Further, with Monday’s firm gain clearing both moving trend-lines on increased and above-average volume and maintaining a supportive stochastics set-up; UAA looks increasingly well-positioned on the price chart.

Bottom line, shares may not sprint higher as Under Armour’s overall business growth simply isn’t there right now. But as a turnaround play, I’ll continue to bet on the bulls attacking fresh highs and maybe even scoring championship style returns in 2018.

UAA Stock Bull Call Spread

Reviewing UAA’s options and given our expectation for the recently established uptrend to continue, one favored spread combination remains an out-of-the-money bull call spread. Specifically, with shares at $16.73, the July $20/$22.50 call spread for 28 cents still looks attractive.

This vertical is now priced for half of the 55 cent purchase price detailed in early April when shares were at $17.89. Aside from the even lower cost of entry and limited risk, this play still affords sufficient time on the calendar to enjoy a profitable pay-off. That’s particularly true given next week’s potential earnings catalyst and ‘da bears increasingly on the defensive and vulnerable to covering a losing wager.

Investment accounts under Christopher Tyler’s management currently own positions in Under Armour (UAA) and its derivatives. The information offered is based upon Christopher Tyler’s observations and strictly intended for educational purposes only; the use of which is the responsibility of the individual. For additional market insights and related musings, follow Chris on Twitter @Options_CAT and StockTwits.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Under Armour Inc Earnings Could Be a Bullish Game Changer appeared first on InvestorPlace.Say hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreEvery day, Wall Street analysts upgrade some stocks, downgrade others, and "initiate coverage" on a few more. But do these analysts even know what they're talking about? Today, we're taking one high-profile Wall Street pick and putting it under the microscope...

Rumors that Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) is planning to kill the iPhone X persist.

Earlier this year, analysts at Rosenblatt Securities cited high costs in Apple's flagship model -- not just the cost for consumers to buy it, but also for Apple to build it -- as one reason Apple was likely to cut production rates and potentially even cease production of (the current version) of the iPhone X. Then came another note.

On Friday last week, analysts at little-known securities firm Mirabaud cited weak guidance from an Apple supplier -- Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing -- as evidence that Apple is trying to "burn off inventory" of components needed to build the iPhone X, implying the company is moving to kill the high-end phone model entirely.

Is that good news or bad news for Apple? According to a different analyst today, the answer to that question is beside the point: The one thing Mizuho Securities is sure of is that this is bad news for Skyworks Solutions (NASDAQ: SWKS).

iPhone X laid flat More

Apple's iPhone X sure is a beauty, but will it put Skyworks stock to sleep? Image source: Apple.

What's bad for Apple...

Here's the problem in a nutshell: Sales for Apple's new high-end iPhone X are underwhelming. Analysts expect overall iPhone shipments to be "flat or declining" this year, and average selling prices (ASPs) are expected to be weak as well. (Which is the opposite of what you'd expect if Apple were successfully selling lots of $999 iPhone X smartphones.)

This has analysts like Mirabaud believing "the iPhone X is dead" as a product. The device's $999 price tag is simply too expensive, and "[c]onsumers are turning their backs on high-priced smartphones" in general, warns the analyst. This trend is already making itself felt at Taiwan Semiconductor, and in Mizuho's opinion, Skyworks could be next on the hit list.

...may be worse for Skyworks

Why? "Handset ASPs may be approaching a ceiling," says Mizuho in a note covered today on StreetInsider.com (subscription required). At the same time, device makers like Apple are continuing to load their high-end phones with cutting edge tech like chip-on-film (CoF), 3D sensing, and OLED screens.

If they want to do that, though, and still keep prices at a level that consumers can abide, costs must be trimmed somewhere. Mizuho's worry is that smartphone makers will attempt to cut the cost of their products by "putting pressure on existing RF suppliers" like Skyworks to lower the cost of their components, thereby decreasing Apple's own costs, permitting it to reduce its retail prices while maintaining its own profit margins.

Of course, this would not be great news for Skyworks.

Running the numbers

Hence Mizuho's decision to downgrade Skyworks shares from buy to neutral, and to cut its price target on Skyworks stock from $125 to just $100 a share. But here's the thing:

Even Mizuho's new, more conservative price target still anticipates about a 13% rise in Skyworks' share price over the next 12 months. (Skyworks stock currently costs less than $89 a share.) And when you run the numbers, Skyworks stock actually looks pretty reasonably priced right now.The new Ford Focus car is displayed during a media preview at the Auto China 2018 motor show in Beijing, China April 25, 2018. REUTERS/Jason Lee

By Nick Carey and Paul Lienert

DETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co (F.N) on Wednesday outlined a plan to cut costs and boost profit margins at a faster pace than previously announced, which includes dropping traditional sedan models in North America that have become increasingly unpopular with consumers.

The No. 2 U.S. automaker said it now plans to cut $25.5 billion in costs by 2022, up from $14 billion (£10.04 billion) in cuts it announced last fall.

Ford Chief Executive Jim Hackett told investors the company is undergoing "a profound refocus" of its operations and may exit unprofitable businesses.

"We'll restructure as necessary, and we'll be decisive," he said. "We're going to feed the healthy part of our business," and dispose of marginal operations, Hackett added.

Ford said it expects pretax profit margins of 8 percent globally and 10 percent in North America by 2020, ahead of a previous target of 2022.

The company's stock was up 2.6 percent at $11.40 in after-hours trading.

Responding to a shift in consumer demand to SUVs and pickup trucks, Ford said it planned to trim its North American car portfolio to just two models: the sporty Mustang, which debuted 50 years ago this month, and a new compact crossover called Focus Active starting in 2019.

Ford "will not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America," including the midsize Fusion and full-size Taurus, the company said.

The automaker has been under pressure from Wall Street investors to improve its product lineup and lift flagging profit margins. In 2017, the company's pretax profit fell to $8.4 billion from $10.3 billion.

In March, Ford executives unveiled ambitious plans to shift the struggling automaker's product portfolio from passenger cars to SUVs, add more hybrid and pure electric vehicles, and reduce development and manufacturing costs - aimed at boosting profits and the automaker's share price.

Speaking to reporters on Wednesday as the company reported first-quarter results, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said "we have looked at every single part of the business . . . We are driven to turn this business around."

Ford reported a better-than-expected first-quarter profit, with a 7 percent increase in revenue and a lower effective tax rate offsetting a jump in costs, especially higher commodity prices.

The company reported a first-quarter net profit of $1.74 billion, or 43 cents per share, up from $1.6 billion, or 40 cents per share, a year earlier. Analysts had on average expected earnings per share of 41 cents.

Despite the higher profit, Ford's adjusted pretax profit margin fell to 5.2 percent from 6.4 percent in the same quarter in 2017.

CFO Shanks said the company expected that commodity costs would represent a $1.5 billion "headwind" in 2018, $500 million of which came in the first quarter.

The lion's share of the automaker's quarterly profit was driven by high-margin pickup trucks and SUVs in North America. Europe was the only other region to turn a profit for Ford.

The company's loss in its Asia Pacific region was driven by slumping sales in China, where Ford has just begun to introduce new models.

Shanks said the Lincoln brand still is losing money in China, where it launched in 2015, but now plans to begin local production there in 2020.

Joe Hinrichs, president of global operations, said Ford plans to build a new product its Hermosillo plant in Mexico when it quits production of the Fusion sedan, and will also build a new battery electric vehicle in Mexico.





(Reporting by Nick Carey and Paul Lienert; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Lisa Shumaker)Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) reported net income of $1.7 billion for the first quarter of 2018, up 9% from a year ago, an increase more than explained by a lower effective tax rate, the company said. Ford's pre-tax result was down modestly on higher costs for key commodities and unfavorable exchange-rate movements.

Ford's revenue increased 7.4% from a year ago, to $42 billion.

During Ford's earnings presentation, CEO Jim Hackett announced that Ford has found $11.5 billion worth of "cost and efficiency opportunities" that should allow it to reach an 8% overall EBIT margin by 2020, two years earlier than it had previously expected. The company will also revamp its product line in North America, dropping all car models aside from the Mustang and a version of the Focus, to boost investments in more profitable truck and SUV models.

A dark blue 2018 Ford Mustang fastback on a mountain road. More

Ford said that the Mustang was the world's top-selling sports coupe in 2017. The next-generation Mustang will be one of just two Ford-brand car models offered in North America. Image source: Ford Motor Company.

The raw numbers

Here are the key numbers from Ford's first-quarter 2018 results.

Metric Q1 2018 Change vs. Q1 2017 Revenue $42.0 billion 7% Vehicles sold 1,662,000 (2.4)% Adjusted EBIT $2.2 billion (12)% Automotive EBIT margin 4.4% 1.6 ppts lower Net income $1.7 billion 0.1% Adjusted earnings per share $0.43 $0.03 improved

Data source: Ford Motor Company. "EBIT" is earnings before interest and tax. "Adjusted" figures exclude the effects of one-time items. Ford took $23 million in one-time charges in the first quarter. "Vehicles sold" are wholesales and are rounded to the nearest thousand. "Ppts" = percentage points.

How Ford's business units performed in the first quarter

Here's a look at how each of Ford's business segments performed. Note that this is the first quarter in which Ford reported separate results for its mobility segment, a change it announced earlier this year. All financial results in this section are reported on an EBIT basis, except as noted.

North America: Ford earned $1.9 billion in its home region in the first quarter, down from $2.1 billion a year ago. Its EBIT margin of 7.8% was down from 8.9% a year ago. Sales volumes, the "mix" of products sold, and net pricing were all positive year over year; the declines in EBIT and margin were more than explained by higher prices for commodities, particularly aluminum and steel.

South America: Ford lost $149 million in South America in the first quarter, an improvement of $88 million from the year-ago period. CFO Bob Shanks said that Ford's sales volume, product mix, and pricing net of incentives were all strongly improved from a year ago, but higher commodity costs and high local inflation in key markets (particularly Argentina) offset more than half of those gains.

Europe: Ford earned $119 million in Europe in the first quarter, down from $209 million a year ago. Ford saw dramatic improvements in net pricing from a year ago, driven by strong demand for the all-new Fiesta (a best-seller in Europe). But those gains were more than offset by lower sales volumes and unfavorable mix, as European buyers turned away from higher-profit diesel models, as well as unfavorable exchange-rate movements.

Middle East and Africa: Ford lost $54 million in this region, an improvement of $21 million from a year ago. Net pricing and costs both improved, but sales were down (marketwide) in Saudi Arabia, a key market.

Asia Pacific: Ford lost $119 million in Asia in the first quarter, versus a $148 million profit, a decline more than explained by lower sales volumes and higher spending in China. As part of a previously announced China restructuring effort, Ford is investing in expanded local production of several upcoming all-new vehicles, including the next-generation Explorer SUV and several Lincoln models.The U.S. Supreme Court building stands in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, April 7, 2017. Judge Neil Gorsuch is poised to win an intensely political confirmation fight to join a Supreme Court already struggling to stay above politics. The Senate's expected confirmation of Gorsuch Friday will restore the generally conservative majority that existed before Justice Antonin Scalia's death last year. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg

The U.S. Supreme Court upheld an administrative review system that has helped Google Inc., Apple Inc. and other companies invalidate hundreds of issued patents.

The justices, voting 7-2, said Tuesday a U.S. Patent and Trademark Office review board that critics call a patent "death squad" wasn’t unconstitutionally wielding powers that belong to the courts.

Silicon Valley companies have used the system as a less-expensive way to ward off demands for royalties, particularly from patent owners derided as "trolls" because they don’t use their patents to make products. Drugmakers and independent inventors complain that it unfairly upends what they thought were established property rights.

“It came down to this: Is the patent office fixing its own mistakes or is the government taking property?” said Wayne Stacy, a patent lawyer with Baker Botts. “They came down on the side of the patent office fixing its own mistakes.”

More from Bloomberg.com: Flight Records Illuminate Mystery of Trump’s Moscow Nights

The ruling caused shares to drop in companies whose main source of revenue -- their patents -- are under threat from challenges. VirnetX Holding Corp., which is trying to protect almost $1 billion in damages it won against Apple, dropped as much as 12 percent and closed down 8.5 percent. The patent office has said its patents are invalid in a case currently before an appeals court.

The court’s ruling “will reassure, if not embolden, patent challengers,” said Christopher Bruno, a patent lawyer with Schiff Hardin. Patent owners are likely to turn their focus to asking courts to scrutinize some of the procedures used by the board, he said.

More from Bloomberg.com: Sessions Declines to Recuse Himself From Probe Into Trump Lawyer

‘Public Rights’

Drugmakers, research companies and independent inventors criticized the Patent Trial and Appeal Board, saying its rules unfairly lean toward challengers and make it harder to fend off competitors and protect their ideas from copycats. Congress set up the system in 2011.

Justice Clarence Thomas wrote the court’s majority opinion, rejecting contentions that issued patents are the type of rights that must be adjudicated only in the federal courts.

"The decision to grant a patent is a matter involving public rights -- specifically, the grant of a public franchise," Thomas wrote. The review system "is simply a reconsideration of that grant, and Congress has permissibly reserved the PTO’s authority to conduct that reconsideration."

More from Bloomberg.com: Stocks Sink as Caterpillar, 3% Yields Rattle Bulls: Markets Wrap

The ruling addressed only whether the reviews are constitutional and doesn’t limit arguments in other contexts that patents are property, Thomas wrote.

“It’s common sense -- we trust them to make these decisions in the first place,” said lawyer Andrew Pincus of Mayer Brown, who submitted legal arguments on behalf of BSA - The Software Alliance. “There are costs to having patents that are overbroad or shouldn’t have been granted. We want to do as much as we can to make sure the experts got it right.”

‘Give a Gift’

Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Neil Gorsuch dissented. “Just because you give a gift doesn’t mean you forever enjoy the right to reclaim it,” Gorsuch wrote for the two.

The Supreme Court also issued a ruling Tuesday in a separate case involving proceedings at the patent review board. In that 5-4 decision , Gorsuch wrote for the court that the board must issue final written decisions on all parts of a patent that are questioned in a challenge, even if the board decides to review only some of them. The effect will force patent owners’ challenges filed at the agency to be more targeted, because they aren’t allowed to raise issues decided by the review board if they go to court later.

Since the reviews began in 2012, more than 7,000 petitions have been filed, primarily on computer and high-tech patents. Former patent office Director Michelle Lee said changes have been made to the process to make it more fair and clear, and more are being considered by the agency.

She said the reviews were “never a death squad” that critics called it, and were set up as a lower-cost alternative to litigation.

The review system was created in response to business complaints about what they considered abusive patent litigation. Other court rulings and changes in how lawsuits are filed have made it easier for accused infringers to fend off lawsuits and demand payment for legal costs when they win.

Story ContinuesThe phrase "Equal Justice Under Law" adorns the west entrance to the U.S. Supreme Court building in Washington December 3, 2014. Picture taken December 3, 2014. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

By Andrew Chung

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday gave its stamp of approval to a government review process prized by high technology companies as an easy and cheap way to combat "patent trolls" and others that bring patent infringement lawsuits.

The justices ruled 7-2 that a type of in-house patent review at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office does not violate a defendant's right under the U.S. Constitution to have a case adjudicated by a federal court and jury.

The court ruled against Oil States International Inc (OIS.N), a Houston-based oilfield services company that had challenged the legality of the process, called inter partes review (IPR).

Justices John Roberts and Neil Gorsuch dissented from the decision authored by fellow conservative Justice Clarence Thomas.

While the ruling gave Silicon Valley reason to celebrate, it displeased name-brand drugmakers, which had called the IPR process a threat to innovation. Firms dubbed "patent trolls" have a business model based on suing other companies over patents rather than actually making products.

The U.S. Congress created the reviews in 2011 to handle the perceived high number of flimsy patents issued by the patent office in prior years. Since then, the agency's Patent Trial and Appeal Board has canceled all or part of a patent in about 80 percent of its final decisions. In 2015, it canceled an Oil States patent on protecting wellhead equipment after an IPR proceeding.

These reviews have been especially popular with companies like Apple Inc (AAPL.O) and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd <005930.KS> frequently hit with patent infringement suits. But pharmaceutical companies like AbbVie Inc (ABBV.N), Allergan plc (AGN.N) and Celgene Corp (CELG.O) called for scrapping the IPR system.

Oil States argued that patents are private property that may be the revoked only by a federal court, where the standard for canceling a patent is higher than in the review proceedings.

Thomas, writing for the court, called the IPR process an extension of the Patent and Trademark Office's decision to grant a patent.





'SIMPLY A RECONSIDERATION'

"Inter partes review is simply a reconsideration of that grant, and Congress has permissibly reserved the PTO's authority to conduct that reconsideration," Thomas wrote.

Though it upheld the IPR process, the court in a separate 5-4 ruling on Tuesday faulted one aspect of how the reviews are carried out. The justices ruled that when several parts of a patent are challenged, the patent office does not have the discretion to review only some of them.

Patent office spokesman Paul Fucito said his agency is "carefully considering" Tuesday's rulings and determining their impact on proceedings before its administrative tribunal that conducts the reviews.

More than 30 appeals raising similar questions piled up at the Supreme Court while the justices were preparing to decide the Oil States case, underscoring the continuing impact of these reviews across industries.

A ruling striking down the reviews could have diverted the bulk of patent disputes back to federal courts, where litigation is more drawn out and expensive. A patent office review costs about $350,000 to litigate fully, whereas in district court it could be $3 million, according to Apple.

The case began when an Oil States subsidiary sued in 2012 claiming Houston-based rival Greene's Energy Group infringed its patent for use in the hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of oil wells. Greene's responded by filing an inter partes review. The patent office tribunal later canceled key parts of the patent. A federal appeals court upheld that decision in 2016.

Backed by the President Donald Trump's administration, Greene's Energy also had the support of large technology firms including Alphabet's Google (GOOGL.O) and Intel Corp(INTC.O).





(Reporting by Andrew Chung; Editing by Will Dunham)Stocks are getting smoked on Tuesday.

Each of the major U.S. indexes was in the red, with the Dow seeing the biggest losses, falling 2.2%, or 550 points, while the S&P 500 was also down 1.7% and the Nasdaq was down 1.9%.

The Dow was being dragged lower by shares of Caterpillar (CAT), down over 6% after having rallied earlier in the session following an earnings beat.

In the tech sector, shares of Google parent company Alphabet (GOOGL, GOOG) were down more than 4.5% after reporting earnings on Monday after the market closed. Also lower in sympathy with Alphabet shares were other tech leaders Facebook (FB) and Amazon (AMZN), both down nearly 4%.

Shares of Amazon, Facebook, and Alphabet were all getting sold hard on Tuesday. (Source: Yahoo Finance) More

Earlier in the session, the 10-year Treasury yield topped 3% for the first time since 2014, a move that had been long-awaited by investors as rates have moved up steadily throughout 2018.

Torsten Sløk, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank, said Tuesday that, “Stocks are too worried about 3% today. The earnings season is going really well and at the macro level corporate America has plenty of cash and hence little borrowing needs, so companies are not impacted much by higher long rates.”

Bespoke Investment Group noted Tuesday that between Monday’s close and Tuesday’s market open, 80 companies reported earnings. On average, these stocks rose 1.45% after results but were down an average of more than 2% since the market open on Tuesday.

Stocks were selling off on Tuesday afternoon with the slide accelerating throughout the day. (AP Photo/Richard Drew) More

And this selling pressure could be exacerbated by a lack of corporate buyers, as strategists out of Goldman Sachs highlighted over the weekend.

“80% of S&P 500 firms are in their buyback blackout windows, which means that volatility will likely remain elevated during the next several weeks,” strategists at Goldman Sachs led by David Kostin said. “Since 2000, volatility has typically been higher during blackout periods compared with non-blackout periods given the absence of corporate demand to support share prices.”

In February when stocks fell sharply from an all-time high in just a few days, corporate buyers were seen as buoying markets. A lack of corporate buyers in late March was seen as adding to the pressure stocks came under after the Federal Reserve’s interest rate hike on March 21.

And with many companies still in a blackout period that typically spans the weeks leading up to and the day or two after an earnings report, new buybacks that are not done as part of a pre-set plan can’t be executed. In other words, executives for a company set to report earnings over the next week can’t go to the market to buy back shares of the company today.

When this blackout lifts, 2018 should still end up being a strong year for corporate buybacks, with Kostin noting that S&P 500 companies should end up repurchasing $650 billion worth of stock this year, a 23% increase over 2017.

—

Myles Udland is a writer at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter @MylesUdland

Read more from Myles here:Ford Motor reports earnings after the close on Wednesday, and the stock is too cheap to ignore given its P/E ratio of 5.83 and dividend yield of 5.43%.iRobot Corporation IRBT reported better-than-expected results for first-quarter 2018.



Earnings/Revenues



Quarterly adjusted earnings came in at 66 cents per share, outpacing the Zacks Consensus Estimate of 50 cents. Also, the bottom line came in higher than the year-ago tally of 52 cents per share.



Revenues in the quarter came in at $217.1 million, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $216 million by a whisker. The top line also improved 28.8% year over year, on the back of stronger sales secured from all end-markets.



Costs/Margins



Cost of sales in the reported quarter was $101.3 million, up 24.8% year over year. Gross margin was 53.3%, up 150 basis points (bps) year over year.



Total operating expenses in the reported quarter was $90.4 million, up 37.6% year over year. Operating margin was 11.7%, down 110 bps year over year.



Balance Sheet/Cash Flow



Exiting the first quarter, iRobot had cash and cash equivalents of $144.5 million, up from $128.6 million recorded as of Dec 30, 2017. Long-term liabilities came in at $13 million, down from $13.9 million reported at the end of 2017.



In the first three months of 2018, iRobot generated $29.8 million cash from operating activities, up from $26.8 million recorded in the year-ago period. Capital expenditure was $8.7 million compared to $3 million witnessed at the end of first-quarter 2017.



Outlook



iRobot believes higher sales of its state-of-the-art home-robotic products and ongoing marketing programs will aid in strengthening its competency in the near future. Based on the existing market conditions, this Zacks Rank #3 (Hold) company reiterated its revenue guidance for 2018 at $1.05-$1.08 billion, estimating year-over-year growth of 19-22%.



However, the company raised its earnings view for full-year 2018 to the $2.15-$2.40 per share range, from the prior outlook of $2.10-$2.35 per share.



Stocks to Consider



Some better-ranked stocks in the Zacks Industrial Products sector are listed below:



Axon Enterprise, Inc AAXN sports a Zacks Rank of 1 (Strong Buy). The company pulled off an average positive earnings surprise of 12.17% over the last four quarters. You can see the complete list of today’s Zacks #1 Rank stocks here.



Alamo Group, Inc. ALG also flaunts a Zacks Rank #1. The company delivered an outstanding average positive earnings surprise of 188.33%, over the preceding four quarters.



Altra Industrial Motion Corp. AIMC holds a Zacks Rank of 2 (Buy). The company came up with an average positive earnings surprise of 11.13% during the same time frame.



Investor Alert: Breakthroughs Pending



A medical advance is now at the flashpoint between theory and realization. Billions of dollars in research have poured into it. Companies are already generating substantial revenue, and even more wondrous products are in the pipeline.



Cures for a variety of deadly diseases are in sight, and so are big potential profits for early investors. Zacks names 5 stocks to buy now.



Click here to see them >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



iRobot Corporation (IRBT) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Alamo Group, Inc. (ALG) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Altra Industrial Motion Corp. (AIMC) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Axon Enterprise, Inc (AAXN) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchFILE - In this Oct. 25, 2011 file photo, a Conoco sign shines in Dallas. The Houston-based company said on Wednesday, April 25, 2018, that it won a $2 billion arbitration award against Venezuela's state oil company over the seizure a decade ago of investments in two projects in the OPEC nation. (AP Photo/LM Otero, File)

CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) — ConocoPhillips said Wednesday that it won a $2 billion arbitration award against Venezuela's state oil company, compounding the financial woes of the socialist-run nation as it struggles to feed its population.

The award represents the equivalent of more than 20 percent of the cash-strapped government's foreign currency reserves.

The Houston-based company said in a statement that the ruling against PDVSA by an International Chamber of Commerce panel was final and binding.

"ConocoPhillips will pursue enforcement and seek financial recovery of its award to the full extent of the law," the company said in a statement.

But collecting the judgment won't be easy, as President Nicolas Maduro is holding on to the few dollars trickling into the country from plummeting oil production and amid sanctions by the Trump administration barring U.S investors from lending money to the government.

There was no immediate comment from Venezuela's government.

The ruling arose from the expropriation of ConocoPhillips' investments in two heavy crude oil projects in 2007 at a time then President Hugo Chavez increased the state's take of record oil rents, forcing foreign oil companies to accept less generous terms. Many instead left the country and sued to hold up their original contracts.

ConocoPhillips is pursuing separate legal action against Venezuela's government under the auspices of the World Bank's investment dispute mechanism. The World Bank tribunal has already ruled that Venezuela broke international law when it nationalized Conoco's stakes in the two fields. Proceedings are underway to determine the amount of compensation.

Venezuela still faces 22 arbitration cases at the World Bank, more than any other country in the world, with potential losses stretching into the billions.By Marianna Parraga

HOUSTON (Reuters) - An international arbitration court has ordered Venezuela's state-run oil company PDVSA to pay ConocoPhillips (COP.N) $2.04 billion for early dissolution of two joint ventures for producing oil in the OPEC-member country, the U.S. firm said on Wednesday.

Conoco's assets in Venezuela were expropriated in 2007 following a nationalisation of the country's oil industry led by late President Hugo Chavez. The firm left the nation after it could not reach a deal to convert its projects into joint ventures controlled by PDVSA [PDVSA.UL].

The arbitration decision, released by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), which has no means of enforcing its decisions, is considered by the U.S. company a first step in a series of legal actions to receive compensation for the expropriation of its assets in Venezuela.

PDVSA did not respond to a request for comment.

Venezuela's cash-constrained economy, almost completely dependent on oil exports, is in the grip of deep recession with hyperinflation and severe shortages of medicine and food. Its ability to pay has also been hurt by U.S. sanctions imposed on the country and PDVSA.

Conoco said it would pursue enforcement and seek financial recovery of its award but did not elaborate. Other companies seeking compensation from Venezuela have tried to enforce awards through various foreign courts.

"The ruling upholds the contractual protections to which ConocoPhillips is entitled," said Janet Langford Carrig, the Houston-based company's general counsel who called the expropriation "unlawful."

Conoco had sought up to $22 billion from PDVSA for the broken contracts and loss of future profits from the Hamaca and Petrozuata oil projects. The agreements with PDVSA had price formulas that limited the compensation Conoco could claim.





A separate arbitration case by Conoco against Venezuela before the World Bank's International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) introduced in 2007 could issue a final decision later this year, a lawyer close to the case said.

A partial decision by ICSID in 2013, which declared the takeover unlawful, is considered by Conoco a "positive step" towards receiving more compensation for its Venezuela assets.

ExxonMobil Corp (XOM.N), also brought two separate arbitration claims before ICSID and the ICC following the 2007 nationalisation of its projects in Venezuela. The company last year sought to enforce a $1.6 billion ICSID award after an annulment committee threw out nearly all of the arbitration decision that concerned one of two projects, reducing the payout to $188.3 million.





(Reporting by Marianna Parraga; Additional reporting by Deisy Buitrago; Editing by David Gregorio and Lisa Shumaker)U.S. oil company Chevron evacuated its executives from Venezuela following the arrest of two employees by national intelligence authorities over an alleged contract dispute with Petróleos de Venezuela, the country’s state-owned energy company. Chevron also ordered other personnel to refrain from entering the facilities of its joint venture with PDVSA, sources told Reuters Wednesday.

It was not immediately clear when Chevron ordered its executives to leave Venezuela. The company said Tuesday it would not comment on “personnel matters,” Reuters reported. Despite the legal dispute, Chevron has no plans to leave the country because it hopes that the country will find stability, Reuters said.

The company announced last week that it was working to release Carlos Luis Algarra and René Vasquez, who were arrested April 17 in the coastal city of Puerto la Cruz. The arrested workers could face charges of treason after refusing to sign a contract for furnace parts because they claimed the price for the parts was too high.

Trending: Weapons Looted From Emirati-Run Military Training Site in Somalia Are Being Sold on the Black Market, Reports Say

Chevron-Venezuela More

Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

This is not the first time the Maduro administration has clamped down on oil executives. In recent months, the Venezuelan attorney general’s office ordered the apprehension of a dozen executives from PDVSA who were accused of bribery. President Nicolás Maduro has supported his administration’s initiative to combat corruption within the oil sector, calling those involved in dubious activities “traitors” and “thieves,” Mexican newspaper Excélsior reported.

At least 150 Chevron employees work in the Puerto la Cruz facilities, Reuters reported. The company’s revenues in Venezuela plummeted 18 percent last year to $329 million, based on local reports, amid the country's growing economic woes, political turmoil and crippled infrastructure. The country's deteriorating living conditions have also forced other companies, such as France's Total and Italy's ENI, to reduce investment and personnel.

Don't miss: ‘Winds of Winter’ Release Date 2018? Nope, but GRRM Reveals ‘Fire & Blood’

Chevron has faced legal disputes in Latin America in the past. Last week, a group of Ecuadorian indigenous people brought a case against Chevron Canada in an Ontario court, arguing that the plaintiffs should take over the subsidiary's shares to pay for the pollution its parent company allegedly generated in their country decades ago, the Toronto Star reported. Even though the plaintiffs do not blame Chevron Canada for the company’s damages, they want the Canadian judicial system to enforce the Ecuadorian Supreme Court's 2011 ruling, which stipulated that Chevron had to pay $9.5 billion in reparations.

Despite Ecuador's ruling in favor of the indigenous group, the company has not operated there for decades, and an American judge prohibited any U.S. court from enforcing the decision against Chevron.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekFILE PHOTO: Visitors look at motherboards being displayed at the AMD booth during the 2012 Computex exhibition at the TWTC Nangang exhibition hall in Taipei June 6, 2012. REUTERS/Yi-ting Chung/File Photo

By Muvija M

(Reuters) - Advanced Micro Devices Inc's quarterly profit and revenue topped Wall Street targets as the chipmaker benefited from higher prices and demand for graphics chips used in personal computers, gaming consoles and cryptocurrency mining.

The chipmaker's forecast for current-quarter revenue also exceeded expectations, and AMD's shares jumped more than 9 percent in after-hours trading on Wednesday.

The stock has climbed over 250 percent in the past two years as the Santa Clara, California-based company benefits from demand for graphics chips used in computers, videogame consoles and for a variety of other applications.

To tap rising demand for chips from data centers, AMD has also developed newer editions of server processors.

Demand for AMD's Radeon series of graphics products remained strong in the first three months of the year as new high-quality videogames were released, Chief Executive Lisa Su said on a call with analysts.

"Our financial progress in the first quarter is attributable to the ongoing strength of Radeon and Ryzen products as well as continued early contributions from our EPYC products," Chief Financial Officer Devinder Kumar said, referring to AMD's EPYC line of server products and Ryzen PC processors.

AMD has also continued to benefit from last year's boom in cryptocurrencies, as graphics chips provide the high computing ability required for mining popular virtual currencies such as bitcoin and ethereum.

Cryptocurrency mining accounted for some 10 percent of AMD's overall revenue in the first quarter, Kumar said.

Still, gaming would continue to be a "top priority" for the company, Su said.

AMD reported a net income of $81 million in the three months ended March 31, compared with a net loss of $33 million a year earlier.

Excluding one-time items, AMD earned 11 cents per share, ahead of analysts' average estimate of 9 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Revenue jumped 40 percent to $1.65 billion, topping expectations of $1.57 billion as sales at its key computing and graphics business nearly doubled.

AMD expects current-quarter revenue of $1.73 billion, give or take $50 million, while analysts were expecting revenue of $1.57 billion.

(Reporting by Muvija M in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Sai Sachin Ravikumar)The logo of Qualcomm is seen during the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain February 27, 2018. REUTERS/Yves Herman

By Stephen Nellis and Sonam Rai

SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Qualcomm Inc's earnings call on Wednesday showed just how far the company is willing to go to preserve one of its core business practices of taking a cut of the selling price of phones.

The San Diego-based chipmaker posted quarterly profit and revenue that topped Wall Street forecasts, suggesting that a slowdown in the global smartphone business might be less severe than feared after a string of weak forecasts from other industry suppliers.

But Qualcomm's other line of business - licensing a trove of patents that help make smart phones work - has traditionally driven most of its profits. And that business has dropped sharply over the past year, as revenue attributable to Apple Inc iPhones is withheld amid a legal dispute.

Qualcomm gave two indications on Wednesday it was prepared to accept lower revenue in exchange for maintaining the business structure and avoiding future customer disputes.

Most Qualcomm licensing revenue is calculated as a percentage of the selling price of a smartphone. That so-called device-level licensing model has been at the center of regulatory disputes in China, Korea and the United States and also in its disputes with Apple.

On Wednesday, Qualcomm said it would cap the phone price that is the basis of the revenue calculation at $400. More expensive phones, which can sell for $1,000, would still be treated as $400 for the purpose of the Qualcomm license fee.

That move follows a Qualcomm decision in November to license some patents that are required for connecting to so-called 5G networks, the next generation of mobile data networks, at a rate of 3.25 percent.

The net effect is that Qualcomm keeps its device-level licensing model and likely accepts less revenue, said Summit Insights Group analyst Kinngai Chan.

"It's cheaper for most people," Chan said. "What Qualcomm is trying to do is ... get everyone to sign a licensing agreement with them so they don't have to worry too much."

When Qualcomm executives were asked directly by an analyst on the post-earnings conference call whether the company would receive less revenue from 5G patents, they disputed the notion.

"We're not getting paid less for it," said Alex Rogers, Qualcomm's licensing chief. "I think the best way to think about this is building a foundation for long-term stability" for Qualcomm's licensing business.

Chan said that a recent deal with Samsung Electronics Co Ltd also appeared to show that the rate was lower. In February, Qualcomm said it had amended a 2009 Samsung agreement with a new licensing rate as part of a deal to settle a regulatory dispute in Korea.

Qualcomm cut its licensing forecast by $300 million for the third quarter and Chief Financial Officer George Davis said just under half of the change was due to changes in arrangements with Samsung and other moves. That, said Chan, indicated a cheaper deal for Samsung.

(Editing By Peter Henderson and Darren Schuettler)FILE PHOTO: A sign on the Qualcomm campus is seen in San Diego, California, U.S. November 6, 2017. REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo

By Sonam Rai and Stephen Nellis

(Reuters) - U.S. chipmaker Qualcomm Inc's quarterly profit and revenue topped Wall Street forecasts, suggesting that a slowdown in the global smartphone business might be less severe than feared after a string of weak forecasts from suppliers.

The results announced in Qualcomm's smartphone chip business contrasted to those from major mobile phone components makers in Asia, including TSMC <2330.TW> and SK Hynix Inc <000660.KS>, which have warned of slower growth in their smartphone chip divisions.

While revenue from Qualcomm's chips division - its largest - rose 6 percent in the three months ended March 25, revenue from the licensing business plunged 44 percent, reflecting the withholding of revenue in a high-profile patent battle with Apple Inc .

Despite the strong quarter for chip sales, the company does see some signs of weakness.

It forecast growth of about 5 percent in modern mobile handsets for the remainder of the year, which is lower than anticipated. Handset prices, however, are higher than expected.

"Qualcomm posted solid results, but its guidance pointed to a softer handset market, particularly in China," said Moody's Senior Vice President Rick Lane.

Qualcomm also is waiting for Chinese regulators to consider its application to buy chipmaker NXP, a deal that Chief Executive Steve Mollenkopf expects to go through. If it does not, Qualcomm plans to use the cash dedicated to the deal for a share buy-back. The deal was held up by diplomatic concerns between countries, rather than Qualcomm-specific concerns, he said.

The biggest spat is over a U.S. ban on exports to China's ZTE Corp <000063.SZ> after it was caught exporting to Iran. Qualcomm said it expects the loss of business with ZTE to lower its profits by 3 cents per share next quarter, though executives also suggested that other smart phone makers that it also does business with may make up for that lost revenue in the longer term.

The results come as San Diego-based Qualcomm tries to convince shareholders it can boost earnings by cutting annual costs by $1 billion and resolving the Apple dispute.

Qualcomm on Wednesday forecast current-quarter revenue of between $4.8 billion and $5.6 billion, and adjusted earnings of 65 to 75 cents per share. Analysts were expecting revenue of $5.32 billion and earnings of 75 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Qualcomm's quarterly net income fell to $363 million, or 24 cents per share, from $749 million, or 50 cents per share, a year earlier.

Excluding one-time items, Qualcomm earned 80 cents per share, ahead of analysts' average estimate of 70 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Total revenue rose 4.9 percent to $5.26 billion, topping expectations of $5.19 billion.

Qualcomm shares rose 1 percent to $50.25 in after-hours trading on Wednesday.

The sentiment also appeared to help boost other chipmakers in after-hours trading, with memory chipmaker Micron Technology up 1 percent to $48.12 after the announcement.

(Reporting by Sonam Rai in Bengaluru and Stephen Nellis in San Francisco; editing by Sai Sachin Ravikumar, G Crosse and Peter Henderson)Say hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreSay hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreVirtually all eyes on Wall Street looked to Facebook (FB) on Wednesday, which posted first-quarter 2018 earnings that beat Wall Street’s estimates and followed one of the most controversial periods for the social network in its history.

Facebook reported earnings of $1.69 per share on $11.97 billion in revenues for the quarter. Wall Street analysts were generally expecting earnings of $1.35 per share on revenues of $11.4 billion for the quarter.

The social network also reported 2.2 billion monthly active users worldwide — a bit higher than the expected 2.19 billion monthly active users — and 1.45 billion daily active users. That’s up from 2.13 billion monthly active users and 1.4 billion daily active users in the previous quarter.

“For most of our existence, we focused mostly on the positives, but it’s clear now we didn’t do enough to prevent foreign interference, hate speech or app developers [from mishandling] data privacy,” Zuckerberg said at the start of the company’s earnings call with investors on Wednesday afternoon.

Still, despite those missteps and challenges, Zuckerberg acknowledged that Facebook’s userbase, or the “Facebook community,” continues to grow at a healthy clip. Facebook’s chief executive also reiterated the social network’s pledge to beef up its security and content review teams — a mix of full-time employees and contractors — to well over 20,000 people by the end of 2018.

Facebook also said it would increase its stock buyback program by $9 billion. The social network’s stock rose 3.5% on Wednesday following the positive earnings news.

Facebook’s latest earnings arrive amid heightened scrutiny around the social network. In mid-March news emerged that Cambridge Analytica had abused Facebook’s terms of service and harvested the data of 50 million users — a number the social network eventually revised to 87 million users — as part of a targeted advertising campaign to help elect President Donald Trump. Facebook management’s initial delay in addressing the controversy head-on stoked the public’s outcry for increased data privacy and government regulation.

The brouhaha culminated in two days of hearings in mid-April that saw Zuckerberg grilled by senators on the Senate Judiciary and Commerce Committees, as well as representatives from the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committees, on a number of issues, including the recent Cambridge Analytica scandal, the company’s role in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, and its position on government regulation regarding user privacy.

Although the 33-year-old Facebook executive’s testimony was well-received, Zuckerberg also left a number of questions unanswered. To that end, Facebook has a long road ahead, which includes hiring more than 20,000 employees and contractors by the end of 2018 to shore up security and privacy, as well as rebuilding public trust with disillusioned politicians on the Hill and disaffected users.

—

JP Mangalindan is the Chief Tech Correspondent for Yahoo Finance covering the intersection of tech and business. Email story tips and musings to jpm@oath.com. Follow him on Twitter or Facebook.

More from JPNEW YORK (AP) — A late round of buying erased early losses on Wall Street, leaving major indexes mixed at the close of trading. Bigger companies managed to eke out modest gains, while smaller companies mostly fell.

A big gain in Boeing pushed the Dow Jones industrial average higher, breaking a five-day losing streak. Late in the day, energy companies got a boost after Exxon Mobil said it is raising its quarterly dividend.

Stocks got off to a weak start as investors worried that growing costs for raw materials along with rising interest rates would hold back profit growth for U.S. companies. Defense contractors stumbled following first-quarter reports from Northrop Grumman and General Dynamics.

U.S. bond yields rose again and set four-year highs while oil prices, already at three-year highs, continued to move higher.

Stocks had tumbled on Tuesday after companies including Caterpillar, 3M and Sherwin-Williams said they seeing higher costs. Caterpillar also said it doesn't expect to top its first-quarter earnings for the rest of this year.

On Wednesday Goodyear Tire & Rubber said higher raw materials costs and weaker demand hurt its business in the first quarter. Its stock fell 5.1 percent to $25.51.

Invesco Chief Global Market Strategist Kristina Hooper said investors are starting to worry that the market's best days are behind it. She noted that wages are rising, as unemployment has been at multi-decade lows for the last few years. That means costs for companies are up. Oil prices have also jumped and investors are worried that new tariffs will also drive up costs and affect company earnings in the months to come.

"I wouldn't be surprised if earnings peaked by the end of this year, but certainly they haven't peaked yet," she said.

The S&P 500 index added 4.84 points, or 0.2 percent, to 2,639.40. The Dow rose 59.70 points, or 0.2 percent, at 24,083.83. The losing streak was its longest in more than a year.

The Nasdaq composite dipped 3.61 points, or 0.1 percent, to 7,003.74. The Russell 2000 index of smaller-company stocks lost 2.81 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,550.47. Most stocks on the New York Stock Exchange fell.

Investors expected strong profit growth this year thanks to the growing global economy and the corporate tax cut President Donald Trump signed at the end of 2017. That optimism helped send stocks to record highs in January. Now investors are worrying about whether that growth will show up.

Aerospace company Boeing topped Wall Street's estimates in the first quarter and raised its forecasts for the year. Its stock gained 4.2 percent to $342.86 and railroad operator Norfolk Southern climbed 8.1 percent to $145.96 after it, too, surpassed analyst projections.

Investors also monitored rising interest rates, which tend to slow down economic growth by making it more expensive for people and companies to borrow money. Bond prices fell again Wednesday, sending yields higher. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note kept setting four-year highs as it rose to 3.03 percent from 3 percent.

Low interest rates have played an important role in the economic recovery of the last decade, and the yield on the 10-year note is a benchmark for many kinds of interest rates including mortgages. It's been climbing because investors expect higher economic growth and inflation. While investors expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates two more times this year, growing numbers of them now expect it to raise rates a third time after that.

Media conglomerate Comcast made a new offer to buy British broadcaster Sky, this time for $30 billion. Sky had accepted a $16.5 billion offer from 21st Century Fox. British regulators are investigating whether Fox's bid for Sky would give Rupert Murdoch and his family too much control over the country's news media.

Comcast also had a stronger first quarter than analysts expected, although it continued to lose cable subscribers. Its stock rose 2.7 percent to $34.26. Sky gained 3.9 percent in London. Fox rose 1.6 percent to $36.58, while Disney, which plans to buy most of Fox's overseas and entertainment assets, climbed 1.7 percent to $101.15.

Germany's DAX fell 1 percent and Britain's FTSE 100 and France's CAC 40 both lost 0.6 percent. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 shed 0.3 percent. Hong Kong's Hang Seng lost 1.1 percent and the South Korean Kospi lost 0.6 percent.

Story ContinuesMany of us know the magic of investing money in the stock market—just letting it sit and watching it grow—but few of us really grasp just how powerfully enriching this can be. Not surprisingly, Warren Buffett, the world’s greatest investor, has a vivid example of this which he shared with me during a visit earlier this year at Berkshire Hathaway headquarters in Omaha.

First, take yourself back, way back to America’s entry into World War II. Franklin Roosevelt was president and Buffett was a young boy. And as you may know young Buffett, unlike most kids his age interested in games or sports, was basically consumed by the stock market. And at that dark moment in US history, Buffett was ready to take action.

“Let me give you a figure that’ll blow your mind I think. I bought my first stock when I was 11 years old. It was the first quarter of 1942, shortly after Pearl Harbor,” Buffett recalls. “I spent $114.75, [for] shares [of a stock.] $114.75. If I put that $114 into the S&P 500 at that time and reinvested the dividends, think of a figure as to what it…would be worth today,” he asked me?

So, what do think?

$10,000?

$75,000?

I’ll give you some help. That’s way low.

Let’s pick it up with Buffett again: “The answer is about $400,000. So if I as a little kid had taken that 114 bucks I’d saved— shoveling snow (LAUGH) or whatever I’d done, [I’d have] $400,000 today. [In] one person’s lifetime. That’s America. I mean, that isn’t me. You know, it’s the huge tailwind the American economy gives to any equity investor.”

Buffett acknowledges that it’s not always easy to stick with it all the way through.

“Now, the market’s gone down many times during that time,” he reminded me. “People have panicked during that time. Headlines have been terrible. You know, it looked like we were losing the war when we first got in. But America is a powerful economic machine that, since 1776, it’s worked and it’s gonna keep working.”

And then he’s almost giving me a pep talk. As in, ‘come on, you can do this!’

“Now, you don’t wanna buy to hold for a year, you don’t wanna buy with the idea that you could sell it in two years or three years necessarily, to make money. You may— you could lose money that way,” he says. “But if you buy it for $10, $20, just keep buying the S&P 500 index and forget about all the other nonsense that’s being sold to you because I’ll guarantee you one thing about (LAUGH) the stuff being sold to you, it will carry bigger fees than what (LAUGH) I’m talking about.”

By that last point Buffett means those big management or brokerage fees would eat up your returns in a huge way and you’d end up with far less that $400K.

So here’s a big question: Will it happen again? In other words, if you invested a similar sum and held it for the same 76 years or so, would you still make out—maybe not exactly the same of course—but would you still make out like a bandit?

Buffett answers that if not directly, then directionally.

“The S&P 500 companies have earned well over 10% on equity, often 15% annually for years, and years, and years, and years,” Buffett says. “They’ve done it— with Democratic administrations, with Republican administrations. Now, you get money compounding at that kind of rate underlying your investment, and you get a diversified group of that, I mean, you’re going to do well.”

You pick up these kinds of things from investing for almost eight decades.

Watch Warren Buffett LIVE at the 2018 Berkshire Hathaway Annual Shareholders Meeting exclusively on the Yahoo Finance app and desktop. Coverage begins May 5 at 9:45am ET. Set a reminder now!

Berkshire Hathaway’s annual meeting will be held on May 5. More

More with Warren Buffett:

Andy Serwer is editor-in-chief of Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter.The world’s third-richest person and Berkshire Hathaway (BRK-A, BRK-B) chairman and CEO Warren Buffett is known for his folksiness, pith, and ability to distill complex investing and economic concepts into super simple ideas.

His annual letter to shareholders is often the forum Buffett uses to not only explain Berkshire’s wins and losses over the previous year, but also to espouse certain lessons the most novice investor can heed.

Ahead of the annual Berkshire Hathaway shareholder meeting on May 5, which Yahoo Finance is livestreaming from Omaha, we’ve collected a few of his notable quotes (as we’ve done before). Many touch on themes and ideas that he comes back to again and again; they all speak to his broad ideas about investing, money, and life in general.

You don’t have to understand advanced investment theory to be a good investor

“To invest successfully, you need not understand beta, efficient markets, modern portfolio theory, option pricing or emerging markets. You may, in fact, be better off knowing nothing of these. That, of course, is not the prevailing view at most business schools, whose finance curriculum tends to be dominated by such subjects. In our view, though, investment students need only two well-taught courses – How to Value a Business, and How to Think About Market Prices.”

-1996 shareholder letter

“…an investor needs some general understanding of business economics as well as the ability to think independently to reach a well-founded positive conclusion. But the investor does not need brilliance nor blinding insights.”

-2000 shareholder letter

Invest for the long term and don’t stray

“Your goal as an investor should simply be to purchase, at a rational price, a part interest in an easily-understandable business whose earnings are virtually certain to be materially higher five, ten and twenty years from now. Over time, you will find only a few companies that meet these standards – so when you see one that qualifies, you should buy a meaningful amount of stock. You must also resist the temptation to stray from your guidelines: If you aren’t willing to own a stock for ten years, don’t even think about owning it for ten minutes.”

-1996 shareholder letter

Know what you know and what you don’t know

“Defining your circle of competence is the most important aspect of investing. It’s not important how large your circle is; you don’t have to be an expert on everything. But knowing where the perimeter of that circle of what you know and what you don’t know and staying inside of it is all important.”

-Talk with to UGA-Terry College of Business students, 2001

“It’s vital, however, that we recognize the perimeter of our ‘circle of competence’ and stay well inside of it. Even then, we will make some mistakes, both with stocks and businesses. But they will not be the disasters that occur, for example, when a long-rising market induces purchases that are based on anticipated price behavior and a desire to be where the action is.”

-2013 shareholder letter

Put your money in index funds

“If a statue is ever erected to honor the person who has done the most for American investors, the handsdown choice should be [Vanguard founder] Jack Bogle. For decades, Jack has urged investors to invest in ultra-low-cost index funds. In his crusade, he amassed only a tiny percentage of the wealth that has typically flowed to managers who have promised their investors large rewards while delivering them nothing – or, as in our bet, less than nothing – of added value.”

-2016 shareholder letter

A image of Warren Buffett towers over Berkshire Hathaway shareholders as they visit and shop at company subsidiaries in Omaha, Neb., Friday, May 5, 2017, at the Berkshire Hathaway shareholders meeting. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) More

Resist stock market FOMO

“The line separating investment and speculation, which is never bright and clear, becomes blurred still further when most market participants have recently enjoyed triumphs. Nothing sedates rationality like large doses of effortless money. After a heady experience of that kind, normally sensible people drift into behavior akin to that of Cinderella at the ball. They know that overstaying the festivities– that is, continuing to speculate in companies that have gigantic valuations relative to the cash they are likely to generate in the future – will eventually bring on pumpkins and mice. But they nevertheless hate to miss a single minute of what is one helluva party. Therefore, the giddy participants all plan to leave just seconds before midnight. There’s a problem, though: They are dancing in a room in which the clocks have no hands.”

Story ContinuesAs General Electric weighs whether to break up the sprawling conglomerate after a year of financial woes, the former vice chairman of the 125-year-old company Bob Wright warned it would be a “fool’s errand” to do so.

“It’s worth more whole,” Wright told FOX Business’ Stuart Varney during an interview on Wednesday. “I don’t think it makes any sense to liquidate the company.”

Instead, GE should consider doing some joint ventures and selling off certain pieces of the company and creating separate partnerships. In recent decades, the conglomerate has relinquished control of many businesses, including NBCUniversal. GE raked in nearly $125 billion in 2016 revenue, but still has more than $130 million in debt.

John Flannery, who replaced a scandal-ridden Jeff Immelt as CEO in August, indicated during a conference call several months ago that the board was considering spinning off some of the conglomerate’s assets.

“There are other issues that have got to be dealt with,” Wright said. “Flannery inherited an incredible mess.”

During GE’s annual meeting, held Wednesday near Pittsburgh, shareholders lambasted Immelt and Jack Welch, who ran the company from 1981 to 2001. Welch hand-selected Immelt -- who’s faced a great deal of blame for the company’s undoing -- as his successor.

Shares of GE dropped to $14 on Wednesday after the credit reporting agency Moody’s Investors Service changed its ratings outlook on the company to Negative.

Related ArticlesThe new Ford Focus car is displayed during a media preview at the Auto China 2018 motor show in Beijing, China April 25, 2018. REUTERS/Jason Lee

By Nick Carey and Paul Lienert

DETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co (F.N) on Wednesday outlined a plan to cut costs and boost profit margins at a faster pace than previously announced, which includes dropping traditional sedan models in North America that have become increasingly unpopular with consumers.

The No. 2 U.S. automaker said it now plans to cut $25.5 billion in costs by 2022, up from $14 billion (£10.04 billion) in cuts it announced last fall.

Ford Chief Executive Jim Hackett told investors the company is undergoing "a profound refocus" of its operations and may exit unprofitable businesses.

"We'll restructure as necessary, and we'll be decisive," he said. "We're going to feed the healthy part of our business," and dispose of marginal operations, Hackett added.

Ford said it expects pretax profit margins of 8 percent globally and 10 percent in North America by 2020, ahead of a previous target of 2022.

The company's stock was up 2.6 percent at $11.40 in after-hours trading.

Responding to a shift in consumer demand to SUVs and pickup trucks, Ford said it planned to trim its North American car portfolio to just two models: the sporty Mustang, which debuted 50 years ago this month, and a new compact crossover called Focus Active starting in 2019.

Ford "will not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America," including the midsize Fusion and full-size Taurus, the company said.

The automaker has been under pressure from Wall Street investors to improve its product lineup and lift flagging profit margins. In 2017, the company's pretax profit fell to $8.4 billion from $10.3 billion.

In March, Ford executives unveiled ambitious plans to shift the struggling automaker's product portfolio from passenger cars to SUVs, add more hybrid and pure electric vehicles, and reduce development and manufacturing costs - aimed at boosting profits and the automaker's share price.

Speaking to reporters on Wednesday as the company reported first-quarter results, Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said "we have looked at every single part of the business . . . We are driven to turn this business around."

Ford reported a better-than-expected first-quarter profit, with a 7 percent increase in revenue and a lower effective tax rate offsetting a jump in costs, especially higher commodity prices.

The company reported a first-quarter net profit of $1.74 billion, or 43 cents per share, up from $1.6 billion, or 40 cents per share, a year earlier. Analysts had on average expected earnings per share of 41 cents.

Despite the higher profit, Ford's adjusted pretax profit margin fell to 5.2 percent from 6.4 percent in the same quarter in 2017.

CFO Shanks said the company expected that commodity costs would represent a $1.5 billion "headwind" in 2018, $500 million of which came in the first quarter.

The lion's share of the automaker's quarterly profit was driven by high-margin pickup trucks and SUVs in North America. Europe was the only other region to turn a profit for Ford.

The company's loss in its Asia Pacific region was driven by slumping sales in China, where Ford has just begun to introduce new models.

Shanks said the Lincoln brand still is losing money in China, where it launched in 2015, but now plans to begin local production there in 2020.

Joe Hinrichs, president of global operations, said Ford plans to build a new product its Hermosillo plant in Mexico when it quits production of the Fusion sedan, and will also build a new battery electric vehicle in Mexico.





(Reporting by Nick Carey and Paul Lienert; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Lisa Shumaker)Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F) reported net income of $1.7 billion for the first quarter of 2018, up 9% from a year ago, an increase more than explained by a lower effective tax rate, the company said. Ford's pre-tax result was down modestly on higher costs for key commodities and unfavorable exchange-rate movements.

Ford's revenue increased 7.4% from a year ago, to $42 billion.

During Ford's earnings presentation, CEO Jim Hackett announced that Ford has found $11.5 billion worth of "cost and efficiency opportunities" that should allow it to reach an 8% overall EBIT margin by 2020, two years earlier than it had previously expected. The company will also revamp its product line in North America, dropping all car models aside from the Mustang and a version of the Focus, to boost investments in more profitable truck and SUV models.

A dark blue 2018 Ford Mustang fastback on a mountain road. More

Ford said that the Mustang was the world's top-selling sports coupe in 2017. The next-generation Mustang will be one of just two Ford-brand car models offered in North America. Image source: Ford Motor Company.

The raw numbers

Here are the key numbers from Ford's first-quarter 2018 results.

Metric Q1 2018 Change vs. Q1 2017 Revenue $42.0 billion 7% Vehicles sold 1,662,000 (2.4)% Adjusted EBIT $2.2 billion (12)% Automotive EBIT margin 4.4% 1.6 ppts lower Net income $1.7 billion 0.1% Adjusted earnings per share $0.43 $0.03 improved

Data source: Ford Motor Company. "EBIT" is earnings before interest and tax. "Adjusted" figures exclude the effects of one-time items. Ford took $23 million in one-time charges in the first quarter. "Vehicles sold" are wholesales and are rounded to the nearest thousand. "Ppts" = percentage points.

How Ford's business units performed in the first quarter

Here's a look at how each of Ford's business segments performed. Note that this is the first quarter in which Ford reported separate results for its mobility segment, a change it announced earlier this year. All financial results in this section are reported on an EBIT basis, except as noted.

North America: Ford earned $1.9 billion in its home region in the first quarter, down from $2.1 billion a year ago. Its EBIT margin of 7.8% was down from 8.9% a year ago. Sales volumes, the "mix" of products sold, and net pricing were all positive year over year; the declines in EBIT and margin were more than explained by higher prices for commodities, particularly aluminum and steel.

South America: Ford lost $149 million in South America in the first quarter, an improvement of $88 million from the year-ago period. CFO Bob Shanks said that Ford's sales volume, product mix, and pricing net of incentives were all strongly improved from a year ago, but higher commodity costs and high local inflation in key markets (particularly Argentina) offset more than half of those gains.

Europe: Ford earned $119 million in Europe in the first quarter, down from $209 million a year ago. Ford saw dramatic improvements in net pricing from a year ago, driven by strong demand for the all-new Fiesta (a best-seller in Europe). But those gains were more than offset by lower sales volumes and unfavorable mix, as European buyers turned away from higher-profit diesel models, as well as unfavorable exchange-rate movements.

Middle East and Africa: Ford lost $54 million in this region, an improvement of $21 million from a year ago. Net pricing and costs both improved, but sales were down (marketwide) in Saudi Arabia, a key market.

Asia Pacific: Ford lost $119 million in Asia in the first quarter, versus a $148 million profit, a decline more than explained by lower sales volumes and higher spending in China. As part of a previously announced China restructuring effort, Ford is investing in expanded local production of several upcoming all-new vehicles, including the next-generation Explorer SUV and several Lincoln models.AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) posted its latest quarterly earnings results after hours Wednesday, which missed analysts’ expectations.

AT&T Inc. More

The U.S. carrier announced first-quarter earnings of 85 cents per share, which came in below the 87 cents per share that Wall Street was calling for. Its revenue tallied up to $38.04 billion, below the $39.31 billion that analysts were projecting in their consensus estimate.

AT&T added 187,000 linear video subscribers during the period, while AT&T added 312,000 subscribers to its streaming service DirecTV Now. The company’s postpaid wireless additions for the period were 49,000 in the U.S.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

The company, which owns the satellite provider DirecTV, has been losing a slew of subscribers to its traditional television packages as more consumers are eliminating cable plans and opting for cheaper streaming services. AT&T is currently in the middle of a trial regarding the company’s $85 billion bid to merge with Time Warner Inc (NYSE:TWX).

The move would make sense for the carrier as buying Time Warner would give it access to cable channels such as HBO and CNN. It would be a way for AT&T to diversify its revenues and give the company a competitive edge in the wireless market through ownership of content, which would help lift it from its spot as the number two carrier in the country.

T stock fell about 4.4% after the bell Wednesday.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post AT&T Inc. Shares Slide on Q1 Earnings Miss appeared first on InvestorPlace.Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMD) saw its shares soar after the company unveiled its latest quarterly earnings results.

Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. More

The company said it brought in adjusted earnings of 11 cents per share for its first quarter of fiscal 2018, topping the 9 cents per share in adjusted earnings that analysts polled by Bloomberg were calling for. Revenue was also strong at $1.65 billion, topping the $1.57 billion that the Wall Street consensus estimate called for, according to Bloomberg.

Advanced Micro Devices saw its revenue increase by 40% compared to the year-ago quarter, thanks in part to its Computing and Graphics Business Segment, which soared 95% year-over-year to $1.12 billion. The company’s Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment declined 12% compared to the year-ago quarter to $532 million, due in part to its semi-custom revenue falling.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

“The first quarter was an outstanding start to 2018 with 40 percent year-over-year revenue growth,” said Lisa Su, AMD’s president and CEO, in a press release. “PC, gaming and datacenter adoption of our new, high-performance products continues to accelerate. We are excited about our long-term roadmaps and focused on delivering sustained revenue growth and profitability.”

For its second quarter of fiscal 2018, the company is projecting $1.72 billion in revenue, give or take $50 million. The Wall Street consensus estimate is calling for revenue of $1.58 billion.

AMD stock was up about 9.7% after the bell Wednesday on the company’s strong quarterly showing.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Crushed Analysts’ Q1 Expectations appeared first on InvestorPlace.Microsoft Becomes Second Most Valuable Company For First Time Since 2015

may not be a favorite in the race to a becoming the country’s first trillion-dollar public company. But recently, after its younger tech peers whizzed past in valuation, Microsoft has become the second most valuable firm--albeit intermittently--for the first time since 2015.

On Tuesday, Microsoft was valued at $714 billion, about $3 billion above Alphabet and Amazon. Only , valued at $838 billion, is higher.

Microsoft had briefly ascended to No. 2 on April 12 and then again on April 16. But it hasn’t been able to maintain its position for long.

On Tuesday, amid worries about higher U.S. Treasury yields and disappointing earnings by other companies that sent the S&P 500 down1.3%, Microsoft rose to No. 2 by virtue of its shares falling less--2.3%--than those of its rivals.

Shares in parent company Alphabet closed down nearly 5% on Tuesday, amid concerns about the earnings it reported a day earlier. Meanwhile shares of e-commerce giant sank 3.8%.

Investors are concerned that tech company earnings over the next couple of weeks will fail to meet lofty expectations. Tech firms were among the best performers of 2017, but they have hit a wall this year as investors rethink their enthusiasm.

Microsoft’s stock has gained momentum under CEO Satya Nadella, who has beefed up the company’s corporate-focused business. The uptick harkens back to a time when the software giant was the most valuable company. At the height of the dot-com boom in 2000, Microsoft was valued at $533.4 billion--about $777 billion in today’s dollars--followed by firms like and . But when the bubble burst, Microsoft’s shares took a beating.

The distraction of an antitrust lawsuit by the Justice Department along with missed opportunities in search and mobile didn’t help.

See original article on Fortune.com

More from Fortune.comWhile small-cap stocks, such as SMART Global Holdings Inc (NASDAQ:SGH) with its market cap of US$862.14M, are popular for their explosive growth, investors should also be aware of their balance sheet to judge whether the company can survive a downturn. Semiconductor companies, even ones that are profitable, are more likely to be higher risk. Evaluating financial health as part of your investment thesis is crucial. I believe these basic checks tell most of the story you need to know. Though, this commentary is still very high-level, so I recommend you dig deeper yourself into SGH here.

How does SGH’s operating cash flow stack up against its debt?

SGH’s debt levels have fallen from US$242.70M to US$177.29M over the last 12 months , which comprises of short- and long-term debt. With this debt repayment, the current cash and short-term investment levels stands at US$22.44M , ready to deploy into the business. Moving onto cash from operations, its small level of operating cash flow means calculating cash-to-debt wouldn’t be too useful, though these low levels of cash means that operational efficiency is worth a look. As the purpose of this article is a high-level overview, I won’t be looking at this today, but you can assess some of SGH’s operating efficiency ratios such as ROA here.

Can SGH pay its short-term liabilities?

Looking at SGH’s most recent US$239.87M liabilities, the company has been able to meet these commitments with a current assets level of US$346.99M, leading to a 1.45x current account ratio. Usually, for Semiconductor companies, this is a suitable ratio since there is a bit of a cash buffer without leaving too much capital in a low-return environment.

NasdaqGS:SGH Historical Debt Apr 25th 18 More

Can SGH service its debt comfortably?

Since total debt levels have outpaced equities, SGH is a highly leveraged company. This is not unusual for small-caps as debt tends to be a cheaper and faster source of funding for some businesses. No matter how high the company’s debt, if it can easily cover the interest payments, it’s considered to be efficient with its use of excess leverage. A company generating earnings after interest and tax at least three times its net interest payments is considered financially sound. In SGH’s case, the ratio of 5.07x suggests that interest is appropriately covered, which means that debtors may be willing to loan the company more money, giving SGH ample headroom to grow its debt facilities.

Next Steps:

At its current level of cash flow coverage, SGH has room for improvement to better cushion for events which may require debt repayment. However, the company will be able to pay all of its upcoming liabilities from its current short-term assets. Keep in mind I haven’t considered other factors such as how SGH has been performing in the past. I recommend you continue to research SMART Global Holdings to get a better picture of the stock by looking at:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for SGH’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for SGH’s outlook. Valuation: What is SGH worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether SGH is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Performing Stocks: Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.While small-cap stocks, such as ATN International Inc (NASDAQ:ATNI) with its market cap of US$1.06B, are popular for their explosive growth, investors should also be aware of their balance sheet to judge whether the company can survive a downturn. Telecom businesses operating in the environment facing headwinds from current disruption, even ones that are profitable, are more likely to be higher risk. Assessing first and foremost the financial health is crucial. I believe these basic checks tell most of the story you need to know. However, I know these factors are very high-level, so I suggest you dig deeper yourself into ATNI here.

Does ATNI generate enough cash through operations?

ATNI’s debt level has been constant at around US$155.79M over the previous year comprising of short- and long-term debt. At this constant level of debt, ATNI currently has US$215.03M remaining in cash and short-term investments , ready to deploy into the business. Additionally, ATNI has produced US$145.73M in operating cash flow during the same period of time, leading to an operating cash to total debt ratio of 93.54%, signalling that ATNI’s current level of operating cash is high enough to cover debt. This ratio can also be a sign of operational efficiency as an alternative to return on assets. In ATNI’s case, it is able to generate 0.94x cash from its debt capital.

Can ATNI meet its short-term obligations with the cash in hand?

With current liabilities at US$161.71M, it appears that the company has been able to meet these obligations given the level of current assets of US$342.93M, with a current ratio of 2.12x. Usually, for Telecom companies, this is a suitable ratio since there is a bit of a cash buffer without leaving too much capital in a low-return environment.

NasdaqGS:ATNI Historical Debt Apr 25th 18 More

Is ATNI’s debt level acceptable?

With debt at 18.77% of equity, ATNI may be thought of as appropriately levered. ATNI is not taking on too much debt commitment, which can be restrictive and risky for equity-holders. We can test if ATNI’s debt levels are sustainable by measuring interest payments against earnings of a company. Ideally, earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) should cover net interest by at least three times. For ATNI, the ratio of 8.58x suggests that interest is appropriately covered, which means that lenders may be inclined to lend more money to the company, as it is seen as safe in terms of payback.

Next Steps:

ATNI’s high cash coverage and low debt levels indicate its ability to utilise its borrowings efficiently in order to generate ample cash flow. Furthermore, the company exhibits an ability to meet its near term obligations should an adverse event occur. This is only a rough assessment of financial health, and I’m sure ATNI has company-specific issues impacting its capital structure decisions. I recommend you continue to research ATN International to get a more holistic view of the stock by looking at:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for ATNI’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for ATNI’s outlook. Valuation: What is ATNI worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether ATNI is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Performing Stocks: Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.Say hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreOver the past 10 years The Williams Companies Inc (NYSE:WMB) has returned an average of 4.00% per year from dividend payouts. The company currently pays out a dividend yield of 5.32% to shareholders, making it a relatively attractive dividend stock. Does Williams Companies tick all the boxes of a great dividend stock? Below, I’ll take you through my analysis. Check out our latest analysis for Williams Companies

5 checks you should do on a dividend stock

When researching a dividend stock, I always follow the following screening criteria:

Is it paying an annual yield above 75% of dividend payers?

Has its dividend been stable over the past (i.e. no missed payments or significant payout cuts)?

Has it increased its dividend per share amount over the past?

Is it able to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings?

Will it have the ability to keep paying its dividends going forward?

NYSE:WMB Historical Dividend Yield Apr 25th 18 More

Does Williams Companies pass our checks?

The company currently pays out 45.60% of its earnings as a dividend, according to its trailing twelve-month data, which means that the dividend is covered by earnings. Going forward, analysts expect WMB’s payout to increase to 107.73% of its earnings, which leads to a dividend yield of 6.30%. However, EPS is forecasted to fall to $0.94 in the upcoming year. Therefore, although payout is expected to increase, the fall in earnings may not equate to higher dividend income. This also brings about uncertainty around the sustainability of the payout ratio. If there’s one type of stock you want to be reliable, it’s dividend stocks and their stable income-generating ability. WMB has increased its DPS from $0.4 to $1.36 in the past 10 years. During this period it has not missed a payment, as one would expect for a company increasing its dividend. This is an impressive feat, which makes WMB a true dividend rockstar. Compared to its peers, Williams Companies has a yield of 5.32%, which is high for Oil and Gas stocks.

Next Steps:

With these dividend metrics in mind, I definitely rank Williams Companies as a strong income stock, and is worth further research for anyone who considers dividends an important part of their portfolio strategy. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, I recommend taking sufficient time to understand its core business and determine whether the company and its investment properties suit your overall goals. I’ve put together three essential factors you should further examine:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for WMB’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for WMB’s outlook. Valuation: What is WMB worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether WMB is currently mispriced by the market. Other Dividend Rockstars: Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.Dividends can be underrated but they form a large part of investment returns, playing an important role in compounding returns in the long run. Cousins Properties Incorporated (NYSE:CUZ) has returned to shareholders over the past 10 years, an average dividend yield of 4.00% annually. Does Cousins Properties tick all the boxes of a great dividend stock? Below, I’ll take you through my analysis. See our latest analysis for Cousins Properties

5 checks you should use to assess a dividend stock

Whenever I am looking at a potential dividend stock investment, I always check these five metrics:

Is it the top 25% annual dividend yield payer?

Does it consistently pay out dividends without missing a payment of significantly cutting payout?

Has the amount of dividend per share grown over the past?

Can it afford to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings?

Will the company be able to keep paying dividend based on the future earnings growth?

NYSE:CUZ Historical Dividend Yield Apr 25th 18 More

Does Cousins Properties pass our checks?

The company currently pays out 46.12% of its earnings as a dividend, according to its trailing twelve-month data, which is rather low compared to other REITs. Generally, REITs are expected to pay out the majority of its earnings to provide a regular income stream for their investors. Furthermore, analysts have not forecasted a dividends per share for the future, which makes it hard to determine the yield shareholders should expect, and whether the current payout is sustainable, moving forward. If there is one thing that you want to be reliable in your life, it’s dividend stocks and their constant income stream. Not only have dividend payouts from Cousins Properties fallen over the past 10 years, it has also been highly volatile during this time, with drops of over 25% in some years. These characteristics do not bode well for income investors seeking reliable stream of dividends. Relative to peers, Cousins Properties produces a yield of 3.05%, which is on the low-side for REITs stocks.

Next Steps:

After digging a little deeper into Cousins Properties’s yield, it’s easy to see why you should be cautious investing in the company just for the dividend. On the other hand, if you are not strictly just a dividend investor, the stock could still be offering some interesting investment opportunities. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, you should always research extensively before deciding whether or not a stock is an appropriate investment for you. I always recommend analysing the company’s fundamentals and underlying business before making an investment decision. Below, I’ve compiled three fundamental aspects you should further research:

Future Outlook: What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for CUZ’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for CUZ’s outlook. Valuation: What is CUZ worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether CUZ is currently mispriced by the market. Dividend Rockstars: Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here.



To help readers see pass the short term volatility of the financial market, we aim to bring you a long-term focused research analysis purely driven by fundamental data. Note that our analysis does not factor in the latest price sensitive company announcements.



The author is an independent contributor and at the time of publication had no position in the stocks mentioned.Ford NASCAR Burnout More

Ford

Ford beats analysts expectations for Q1 earnings.

Ford is in the midst of a corporate restructuring.

Ford announced it will not invest in new sedans in North America but will keep Mustang and a new crossover with the Focus nameplate.

Ford reported first-quarter earnings after the markets closed on Wednesday and beat analysts expectations, with a profit of $0.43 per share and revenue of $42 billion.

"We are committed to taking the appropriate actions to drive profitable growth and maximize the returns of our business over the long term," CEO Jim Hackett said in a statement.

"Where we can raise the returns of underperforming parts of our business by making them more fit, we will. If appropriate returns are not on the horizon, we will shift that capital to where we can play and win."

Winning for Ford means killing off its sedans.

"Given declining consumer demand and product profitability, the company will not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America," the carmaker said.

"Over the next few years, the Ford car portfolio in North America will transition to two vehicles – the best-selling Mustang and the all-new Focus Active crossover coming out next year."

Consumers have made a decisive shift away from four-doors to SUVs in recently years. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles moved away from sedan over a year ago, while General Motors has remained committed but has dialed back production.

Ford said that 90% of its US lineup would be pickups, SUVs, and commercial vehicles.

Ford shares finished the trading day on Wednesday up just over 1%, to $11. Year-to-date, Ford stock has declined over 12%.

Ford Chart More

Markets Insider

NOW WATCH: Ford replacing its CEO points to the short-termism on Wall Street

See Also:

FOLLOW US: On Facebook for more car and transportation content!From Car and Driver

In an unprecedented move that may reshape the entire auto industry, Ford will stop building all sedans and hatchbacks and shift production to crossovers and trucks. It is, by far, the company’s most dramatic production change in its 115-year history since Henry Ford adopted the assembly line.

In its first-quarter statement on Wednesday, the company said it will only sell two cars for the U.S. market within the “next few years” and that it will “not invest in next generations of traditional Ford sedans for North America.” In a separate post on Medium, Ford CEO Jim Farley said Ford’s trucks and SUVs will soon become 86 percent of the company’s U.S. volume. In its statement, Ford said it will rely solely on a two-car lineup, the new Focus Active-a raised, body-cladded version of its all-new Focus hatchback (a crossover, in other words)-and the Mustang.

Since Ford recently refreshed its Fusion sedan for the second time, that car will stick around the longest-at least for the next couple of years, according to company spokesman Said Deep. The Taurus, which still sits on the same Volvo-based platform as the current Explorer, will cease production by March 2019. The subcompact Fiesta sedan and hatch will die in May 2019. The C-Max, Ford’s only dedicated hybrid in the U.S. market, was dropped last year. The plug-in C-Max Energi will disappear this May.

“The traditional sedan that serves all these buyers will evolve into something else,” Deep told C/D. “It doesn’t mean that you’re abandoning that buyer.”

The all-new 2019 Focus will drop its sedan variant (and most likely the regular five-door hatch) when the Wayne, Michigan, plant stops production of the current generation and makes room for the Ranger pickup next year. Until hybrid versions of the Mustang, F-150, and more crossovers debut, the Fusion Energi will be Ford’s only plug-in until its dedicated “performance utility” EV arrives in 2020. The future of Ford’s premier performance hatch, the Focus RS, is still under consideration.

Ford said it will explore “white space” vehicle designs that are essentially crossovers or faux-utility vehicles that disguise their traditional car shapes with higher ground clearance, body cladding, and all-wheel drive.

Ford’s decision makes Fiat Chrysler’s move in 2016 to ax two of its sedans appear tame. At the time, FCA CEO Sergio Marchionne defended the move to investors as a quick way to increase production of more profitable Jeeps and Ram pickups. Crossovers and SUVs have quickly come to represent more than half of the total industry’s U.S. sales, while sedans and small cars have been sinking. Now, with fewer cars on the market, it appears they will sink more.

You Might Also LikeSenator Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon, questions witnesses during a Senate Intelligence Committee hearing on election security in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Wednesday, March 21, 2018. At a news conference yesterday, the Senate Intelligence Committee said the U.S. needs to do more -- and quickly -- to prevent a repeat of hacking into voting systems by Russians or others ahead of this years midterm elections.

A Senate hearing Tuesday indicated the politics of the tax overhaul haven’t changed since it passed in December, with Republicans singing its praises as an economist booster and Democrats torching it as a broken promise that mostly benefits the wealthiest.

Senator Ron Wyden, the ranking Democrat on the Finance Committee, zeroed in on a new report by the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation which found that almost half of the benefit of the 20 percent deduction for "pass-through" businesses like partnerships and LLCs would flow to those making $1 million and up.

More from Bloomberg.com: Flight Records Illuminate Mystery of Trump’s Moscow Nights

In 2018, almost $18 billion of the $40 billion tax break would go to $1 million-or-more entities, the JCT said. By 2024, the figure for those earners rises to almost $32 billion of the $60 billion in pass-through tax breaks that year under the Republican law.

“People don’t think millionaires are the regular garden-variety small businesses on Main Street,” Wyden said, asking witnesses to explain that finding.

The GOP tax law created a 20 percent deduction for pass-through businesses, whose income is reported on their owners’ personal tax returns. Congress tried to bar wealthy owners of service businesses from getting the break -- leaving out many doctors, lawyers and hedge fund managers, but tax experts have said there are loopholes in the legislation that could allow for workarounds.

More from Bloomberg.com: Sessions Declines to Recuse Himself From Probe Into Trump Lawyer

Technical Corrections

Doug Holtz-Eakin, an economist at the Republican-aligned group American Action Forum, which supports the tax law, defended the provision during the hearing as improving incentives to save invest and work. He said it would have been incomplete to stop at simply a corporate tax cut and not lower pass-through taxes as well, and added that benefits to pass-through owners will trickle down to workers.

"This is the foundation of the economics of the bill, which is improved incentives to save, invest and work," said Holtz-Eakin.

Wyden of Oregon said the law was “shaping up to be one of history’s most expensive broken promises. Probably go right up there with ‘we will be greeted as liberators’” -- a reference to how some Iraq war proponents previewed the mission before U.S. forces invaded in 2003.

More from Bloomberg.com: White House Deterring Republicans From Defending Pruitt, Sources Say

Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Republican chairman of the panel, said "every member who actively participated in drafting the bill should be proud of the new tax law."

“We were proud when we passed it, and we are even prouder now as all across the nation, evidence affirms that the new law is tangibly benefiting millions of Americans,” he said. “More than 500 companies have announced wage hikes, increased benefits, more jobs, and increased investment or expansion in the United States thanks to the new law.”

Hatch indicated that Congress should make technical corrections to the law, calling that “par for the course for any major tax bill.”

‘Fiscal Irresponsibility’

Legislation to make any tax rule fixes would require Democratic support -- so far, Republican leaders have signaled they won’t vote on a stand-alone bill before congressional elections in November.

Numerous Democrats up for re-election in states that President Donald Trump carried -- including Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio -- also criticized the law, which Republicans are hoping will help their candidates.

McCaskill, a top GOP target who faces re-election in a state Trump won by almost 19 points, knocked the tax law as a deficit-raiser that will disproportionately benefit top earners.

“It’s truly stunning, this kind of fiscal irresponsibility,” she said.

More from Bloomberg.com

Read Four Months Later, Democrats Still Fiercely Oppose the GOP Tax Law on bloombergpolitics.comBERLIN (Reuters) - German sportswear maker Puma is working on contingency plans to move some production from China to other Asian markets if U.S. tariffs are imposed on footwear, its chief executive said on Tuesday.

Puma currently makes about a third of its products in China and is looking into moving production of goods for the U.S. market to countries like Vietnam and Indonesia, Puma CEO Bjorn Gulden told a conference call for journalists.

Gulden said moving production could take up to 12 months, adding that capacity freed up in Chinese factories could also be used to make products for the booming Chinese market. Other impacts of tariffs could be lower margins or higher prices, he added.





(Reporting by Emma Thomasson; Editing by Tom Sims)Apple aapl Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook will meet with President Donald Trump at the White House on Wednesday as the company looks to head off a brewing trade war between the U.S. and China.

The sit-down between Cook and Trump will take place in the Oval Office on Wednesday afternoon and be closed to the press, according to the president’s official schedule released by the White House.

The Trump administration’s decision to pursue tariffs on as much as $150 billion in Chinese goods has stoked trade tensions with Beijing that could affect Apple’s business in Asia. The company’s sprawling production chain is also centered in China.

Last month, Cook told attendees at a conference in Beijing that he hoped that China and the U.S. could resolve their differences on trade.

“The countries that embrace openness do exceptional and the countries that don’t, don’t,” he said. “It’s not a matter of carving things up between sides. I’m going to encourage that calm heads prevail.”

A trade war could place Apple in the Chinese government’s cross-hairs. A Communist Party newspaper last month listed the iPhone maker among the American companies that would be “most damaged” if a trade war erupted.

Apple didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment after regular business hours.

Cook was among the guests on Tuesday evening at the first state dinner of Trump’s presidency, a formal fete for French President Emmanuel Macron. The Apple chief was accompanied by Lisa Jackson, Apple’s vice president of environment and government affairs and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency under President Barack Obama.Tim Cook, Chief Executive Officer of Apple Inc., takes part in an education-focused event at Lane Technical College Prep High School in Chicago, Illinois, U.S., March 27, 2018. REUTERS/John Gress

By Roberta Rampton and David Shepardson

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Donald Trump and two top aides talked about trade issues with Apple Inc chief Tim Cook on Wednesday as the White House prepares to try to avert a trade war with China, a manufacturing hub for the iPhone maker.

Cook, who has urged calm during the recent flare in U.S. trade tensions with China, held private talks with Trump in the Oval Office. He also spoke with the president's top economic adviser Larry Kudlow and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.

Trump is preparing to send a delegation to China to try to head off a trade war that stands to harm Apple, the world's largest technology company, and other hardware makers that build products in China.

Trump has threatened a new round of $100 billion in tariffs on Chinese products that could target cellphones, computers and other consumer goods. China retaliated against an initial round of $50 billion in tariffs.

The meeting, which the White House said had been in the works for a couple of weeks, came the day after Cook sat at Trump's head table at his first state dinner, held in honour of French President Emmanuel Macron.

A White House official described the meeting as "good" but neither the White House nor Apple provided details of the discussions.

Trump said earlier on Wednesday that he was looking forward to seeing Cook. "We will be talking about many things, including how the U.S. has been treated unfairly for many years, by many countries, on trade," he said on Twitter.

Cook also had strong relations with Trump's predecessor in the White House, Democratic President Barack Obama. He sat at the head table for Obama's 2015 state dinner honouring Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Cook has been to China at least three times since October, including paying a visit to Xi.





'GOOD GUY'

Cook has become one of Trump's favourite CEOs to name-check in speeches. This was a surprising turn after a rocky start to their relationship. During his election campaign, Trump urged supporters to boycott Apple and criticized the company for making its products in China.

As president, Trump has called Cook a “good guy” and mentioned him by name at least 10 times during public remarks, including during his speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos in January and during several high-profile interviews.

The president frequently uses Cook and Apple as an example of how he says his tax cut package is creating jobs because it spurred the company to repatriate earnings it had held overseas.

Trump has frequently said he would not consider his presidency successful unless Apple builds manufacturing plants in the United States.

Apple has a market capitalization of $835 billion and 123,000 employees, 84,000 of whom are in the United States. The company said in January it plans to spend $30 billion in capital expenditures in the United States over the next five years, $10 billion of that on data centres.

Apple said its spending will create 20,000 new jobs through hiring at existing campuses in Cupertino and Austin as well as at a planned new campus.

Cook has also developed ties with Trump's daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner, both senior advisers at the White House who work on tech training and government IT modernization issues.

His praise for Cook aside, Trump, a Republican, has had a sometimes tense relationship with the U.S. technology industry, based in Democratic strongholds such as California's Silicon Valley and in Seattle. He has clashed with the tech sector on issues including trade, immigration and the environment.

Cook has publicly objected to Trump's decision to end a program protecting from deportation young immigrants who were brought illegally to the United States as children. He was also among business leaders who criticized Trump after the president cast equal blame on white nationalists and anti-racism activists for violence last year in Charlottesville, Virginia.





(Reporting by David Shepardson, Roberta Rampton, Jeff Mason and Susan Heavey in Washington and Stephen Nellis in San Francisco; Editing by David Gregorio, Jeffrey Benkoe and Frances Kerry)Qualcomm Incorporated (QCOM) just released its latest quarterly financial results, posting adjusted earnings of $0.80 per share and revenues of $5.23 billion.

Qualcomm Incorporated (QCOM) just released its latest quarterly financial results, posting adjusted earnings of $0.80 per share and revenues of $5.23 billion.

Currently, QCOM is a Zacks Rank #3 (Hold), but that could change based on today’s results. Shares of the company have lost about 11% over the past month and were basically flat during regular trading hours today.

The stock is currently up 2.5% to $51.00 per share in after-hours trading shortly after its earnings report was released.

Qualcomm:

Beat earnings estimates. The company posted adjusted earnings of $0.80 per share, beating the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $0.70. Investors should note that this consensus projection has trended downward over the duration of the quarter.

Beat revenue estimates. The company saw non-GAAP revenue figures of $5.23 billion, topping our consensus estimate of $5.20 billion. Revenue was $5.26 billion on a GAAP basis.

Qualcomm had cash and cash equivalents of $39.6 billion at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2018, compared to $28.9 billion a year ago and $39.9 billion at the end of Q1. Operating cash flow in Q2 was $0.5 billion.

The first and second quarter of Qualcomm’s fiscal 2018 were affected by its dispute with Apple AAPL and its contract manufacturers, as well as the previously disclosed dispute with another licensee.

“Our fiscal second quarter results reflect better than expected performance in our semiconductor business and lower operating expenses,” said CEO Steve Mollenkopf. “Looking forward, we remain committed to driving improved performance in fiscal 2019, consistent with our prior guidance. We are making good progress on executing our $1 billion cost plan, are focused on closing our pending acquisition of NXP and are well positioned to drive the global commercialization of 5G.”

Qualcomm expects third quarter fiscal 2018 revenue to fall in the range of $4.8 billion to $5.6 billion. This would represent a decrease of 11% to an increase of 4%. Non-GAAP earnings are expected to come in at $0.65 to $0.75 per share. Our latest Zacks Consensus Estimate for Q3 was calling for earnings of $0.73 per share.

Here’s a graph that looks at Qualcomm’s recent earnings performance:

QUALCOMM Incorporated Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise

QUALCOMM Incorporated Price, Consensus and EPS Surprise | QUALCOMM Incorporated Quote

Qualcomm Incorporated is a world leader in 3G, 4G and next-generation wireless technologies. Qualcomm Incorporated includes Qualcomm's licensing business, QTL, and the vast majority of its patent portfolio. Qualcomm Technologies operates, along with its subsidiaries, substantially all of Qualcomm's engineering, research and development functions, and substantially all of its products and services businesses, including its semiconductor business, QCT.

Check back later for our full analysis on QCOM’s earnings report!

Want more market analysis from this author? Make sure to follow @Ryan_McQueeney on Twitter!

Investor Alert: Breakthroughs Pending

A medical advance is now at the flashpoint between theory and realization. Billions of dollars in research have poured into it. Companies are already generating substantial revenue, and even more wondrous products are in the pipeline.

Cures for a variety of deadly diseases are in sight, and so are big potential profits for early investors. Zacks names 5 stocks to buy now.

Click here to see them >>



Want the latest recommendations from Zacks Investment Research? Today, you can download 7 Best Stocks for the Next 30 Days. Click to get this free report



QUALCOMM Incorporated (QCOM) : Free Stock Analysis Report



Apple Inc. (AAPL) : Free Stock Analysis Report



To read this article on Zacks.com click here.



Zacks Investment ResearchFILE PHOTO: Visitors look at motherboards being displayed at the AMD booth during the 2012 Computex exhibition at the TWTC Nangang exhibition hall in Taipei June 6, 2012. REUTERS/Yi-ting Chung/File Photo

Advanced Micro Devices is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings Wednesday afternoon.

Refresh this page to see the results as soon as they are released.

Follow AMD's stock price in real-time here.

AMD, Advanced Micro Devices, is scheduled to report first-quarter earnings after the closing bell on Wednesday.

Analyst polled by Bloomberg expect the chipmaker to post adjusted earnings of $0.09 per share on revenues of $1.57 billion.

"We expect AMD to report C1Q ABOVE and guide C2Q INLINE on an absolute basis despite waning momentum in Crypto exiting C1Q," Credit Suisse analyst John Pitzer wrote in a note ahead of the results. "Specifically, we expect Crypto to drive $150-200 mm of UPSIDE to both our C1Q and C2Q Rev estimate."

The crypto craze that peaked in January provided a boost for graphics processor unit makers like AMD and its competitor Nvidia. But as prices have fallen in 2018, so too has would-be miners interest in the chips that were traditionally only popular among PC gamers.

"Ultimately, we don’t believe Crypto GPU Rev is sustainable and see 3 potential issues: (1) Price volatility in Ethereum which makes mining less economical, (2) Bitmain’s Ethereum ASIC scheduled for release in July, and (3) An increased probability of Crypto moving from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake negating the need for mining/GPUs all together," Pitzer added.

Ahead of the report, millennial investors on the brokerage app Robinhood were gobbling up shares of the company 40% more than they were selling — a marked shift from last quarter when young investors were dumping the stock.

Shares sank about 2.7% on Wednesday, and are down 10% since the beginning of the year.

AMD stock price earnings More

Markets Insider

NOW WATCH: Wall Street's biggest bull explains why trade war fears are way overblown

See Also:

SEE ALSO: Young people are loving AMD ahead of earningsGeneral Dynamics Corporation (NYSE:GD) stock was down on Wednesday despite posting an earnings beat for the first quarter of 2018.

General Dynamics Corporation Stock Heads Lower Despite Earnings Beat More

Source: Alan Wilson via Flickr (Modified)

General Dynamics Corporation reported earnings per share of $2.65 for the first quarter of the year. This is an increase over its earnings per share of $2.48 from the same time last year. It also beat out Wall Street’s earnings per share estimate of $2.52 for the quarter, but couldn’t save GD stock.

Net earnings reported by General Dynamics Corporation for the first quarter of 2018 was $799 million. The aerospace and defense company reported net earnings of $763 million for the first quarter of 2017.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

During the first quarter of the year, General Dynamics Corporation reported operating income of $1.01 billion. This is down slightly from its operating income of $1.05 billion reported in the same period of the year prior.

The blow to GD stock comes from General Dynamics Corporation’s revenue of $7.54 billion for the first quarter of 2018. The company’s revenue from the same quarter of the previous year was $7.44 billion. Analysts were looking for revenue of $7.60 billion from GD for the period.

While General Dynamics Corporation saw its revenue increase in most segments for the first quarter of the year, there was one area that lagged behind others. Aerospace revenue for the quarter was $1.83 billion, which is down 12% from the $2.07 billion reported in the first quarter of 2017. This weak revenue is likely what kept the company from reaching Wall Street’s estimate for the quarter.

GD stock was down 3% as of Wednesday afternoon.

More From InvestorPlace

As of this writing, William White did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities.

Compare Brokers

The post General Dynamics Corporation Stock Heads Lower Despite Earnings Beat appeared first on InvestorPlace.3M Co (NYSE:MMM) investors certainly aren’t having fun, as shares fell 6.8% on Tuesday and sit just $9 above its 52-week low near $192. Ironically, 3M stock set that low on April 25, 2017. Only back then, shares of MMM stock weren’t in a total free-fall.

What’s got 3M down, anyway? The company missed earnings per share estimates by a penny, but did beat on revenue expectations. Given that shares had fallen about 17% from the highs coming into the report, 3M probably could have gotten away with the penny-per-share miss.

But, then management had to lower guidance.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

When the stock market’s not in a good mood, missing earnings and coming up short on guidance — no matter how much the stock has already suffered — is a recipe for disaster. From the midpoint of management’s outlook, 3M now expects earnings per share of $10.37 vs. $10.45 in the prior outlook and organic sales growth of 3.5% rather than 4%.

Are they massive cutbacks? No. But, like I said, with today’s current environment, it’s not good to come up short.

Where to Now for 3M Stock?

The question investors now have to ask themselves is simple: Buy, sell or hold? It’s tough to hit the exits with shares down about 22% from the highs, as nobody wants to realize that kind of loss. Some may consider selling out of 3M and rolling into Honeywell International Inc. (NYSE:HON). They could log the loss for 3M and buy into HON without worrying about a wash sale and still stay long the industry — assuming they’re still bullish.

After all, Honeywell just beat on earnings per share and revenue results, while also boosting guidance, not cutting it like 3M.

If that’s not an option, the question becomes whether to buy or stay long 3M. Even the high end of management’s guidance ($10.55) barely comes in ahead of consensus estimates of $10.53 per share. Basing it off management’s outlook, 3M stock trades at more than 19 times this year’s earnings.

For that valuation, we get 13% earnings growth this year and less than 10% next year (although this figure may not be that accurate, now). On the revenue front, analysts expect about 6.5% growth this year.

Honeywell has about the same growth profile: 12.7% earnings growth this year and ~10% next year, along with revenue growth of 6% and 4% in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Shares trade at just over 18 times this year’s earnings.

For a slightly lower valuation, we’re essentially getting the same growth. Although, HON’s 2% dividend is lower than 3M’s 2.5% payout. Am I saying that 3M is a horrendous company? Absolutely not. It’s a high quality company just like HON. But, one company has some mojo (albeit not a ton) and the other has none.





Trading MMM Stock

While it’s been an ugly slide for 3M stock, the bulls actually have one notable opportunity.

Should You Buy 3M Co (MMM) Stock After Earnings Plunge? More

Click to Enlarge

MMM stock is only slightly oversold at this point, with a relative strength index (RSI) of 27. Below 30 is technically an oversold position, but this reading can easily slip to the low-20s, if not even lower. That could time up with the hopefully strong layer of support sitting just below current levels.

Highlighted by a blue rectangle, the $190-$195 area should act as support for MMM stock. If it doesn’t hold as support, it’s honestly hard to say where 3M will end up. It’s already below all three major moving averages and sitting on hefty losses. Daring bulls or those who love the fundamental story can take a stab near the traced out area above.

For reference, here’s an updated HON chart from a few weeks ago:

trading HON stock MoreCongratulations! You're ready to leave the 9-to-5 grind and reap the rewards of your hard-earned savings. Here's a tough question: What do you do with that massive nest egg?Social Security serves as a key source of income for millions of seniors today. But new data tells us that retirees are growing less confident in the program. Only 45% of retired workers think Social Security will continue to provide the same benefits it does today going forward, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. That's a drop from the 51% of retirees who felt the same way last year. The question is: Are today's seniors being overly pessimistic? Or are they really on to something?

The future of Social Security: Shaky but relatively certain

Many workers and retirees alike are under the impression that Social Security is at risk of going bankrupt. The reality, however, is that the program can't actually run out of money because it's funded by payroll taxes. Therefore, as long as we have a workforce and continue to take out those taxes, seniors will receive benefits in some shape or form.

Senior man on laptop, looking concerned More

IMAGE SOURCE: GETTY IMAGES.

That said, according to the latest trustee report, Social Security's trust funds are set to run dry in 2034. Once that happens, the program might need to cut benefits by as much as 23%, which would no doubt constitute a major blow for current and future recipients. On the other hand, Congress has more than a decade and a half to intervene with a fix, and given the number of seniors who would no doubt be pushed well below the poverty line were those cuts to actually happen, lawmakers have a lot to lose by sitting back and doing nothing.

But even if benefits don't wind up getting slashed in the future, recipients still face a very real problem: Social Security isn't keeping up with senior spending. The program's meager cost-of-living increases have not done a good enough job of helping beneficiaries maintain their buying power in the face of inflation, partly because those boosts have been minor or nonexistent in recent years, and partly because they get eaten up by rising Medicare premiums before seniors even get their hands on them.

All of this means one thing for today's workers who are planning to fall back on Social Security in retirement: Be careful about relying too heavily on those benefits, and save for your own future instead. Otherwise, you might be in for a major financial struggle down the line.

Building your nest egg

Let's be clear about one thing: Social Security was never designed to sustain seniors on its own. In a best-case scenario -- meaning, none of the future cuts we talked about -- those benefits will replace about 40% of the average worker's pre-retirement income. Most seniors, however, need close to double that amount to live comfortably (not lavishly, mind you -- just comfortably). It's therefore on you, individually, to amass enough savings to pick up where Social Security leaves off.

Now the good news is that today's annual contribution limits allow for some serious savings in a 401(k) or IRA. Workers under 50 can put away up to $18,500 a year in the former and $5,500 in the latter, and these limits increase to $24,500 and $6,500, respectively, among those 50 and older.

Of course, not everyone can max out a 401(k) or even an IRA year after year, but if you commit to setting a decent chunk of cash aside each month, and invest that money wisely, you could accumulate a fair amount of wealth. Imagine you're 37 with no savings and start setting aside $400 a month until age 67. Let's also assume you invest heavily in stocks, and therefore generate an average annual 7% return on your savings (that 7% is actually a couple of points below the market's average). At the end of the day, you'll be sitting on $453,000, which, combined with whatever you do get out of Social Security, could make for a pretty decent retirement. Boost that monthly savings rate to $600, meanwhile, and you'll have $680,000 to work with.

Story ContinuesShares of Philip Morris International Inc. (NYSE:PM) have certainly been taken out to the woodshed lately. PM stock has dropped a staggering 20% over the past five trading days following a disappointing earnings report. Undoubtedly a selloff was warranted due to the tepid earnings, but the recent carnage has now gotten a little extreme, both from a technical and fundamental perspective. I look for PM to find its footing near current levels.

Philip Morris reported earnings on April 19 that were a mixed bag. Earnings were a beat at $1 per share compared to consensus estimates of just 90 cents. Revenues missed, however, coming in at $6.90 billion versus consensus of $7.04 billion. Most importantly, 2018 guidance was lowered slightly to a range of $5.25 to $5.40.

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

Assuming the lower end of the guidance and using the closing price of $82.49 gives a forward P/E of 15.7 for PM stock, well below the five-year average of 20.24 and nearing the lows of 14.33. PM stock is getting to be a value play, especially on further weakness.

Phillip Morris Stock Chart



Click to Enlarge



A look at the weekly chart going back to 2012 shows that PM is fast approaching major long term support at the $75 level. MACD is also at the most extreme reading over the past six years, with prior instances signaling significant short term lows.

Yesterday’s price action was also encouraging, with PM stock trading down to $80.64 before reversing to close well off the lows at $82.70. This type of reversal pattern is usually a sign the sellers may have become exhausted, especially after such a brutal five day drop. A bounce of some sort would not be unlikely.

PM options are trading in the 63rd percentile of implied volatility (IV) which means option prices are comparatively expensive. This favors option selling strategies when constructing trades. So to position for long term support to hold in PM stock, a put credit spread makes sense.

Phillip Morris Trade Idea

Buy PM Sep $70 puts and sell PM Sep $75 puts for a 95-cent net credit.

Maximum gain on the trade is $95 per spread with maximum risk of $405 per spread. Return on risk is 23.5%. The short $75 strike price is right at long term support and provides a 9% downside cushion to the $82.49 closing price of PM stock. The $75 strike price also implies a 14.29 forward P/E, a multiyear low in valuation.

Tim may hold some of the aforementioned securities in one or more of his newsletters. Anyone interested in finding out more about Tim and his option-based strategies can go to https://marketfy.com/item/options-and-volatility.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Phillip Morris International Inc. Has Been Smoked, But It May Be Time To Light Up Again appeared first on InvestorPlace.Say hello to the new Gmail with self-destructing messages, email snoozing and moreIt’s earnings season and one underdog looking worthy of a wager is Under Armour Inc (NYSE:UAA). But if you’re going to bet on ‘da bulls continuing to move UAA stock up the field on the price chart; a bull call spread remains in the starting line-up. Let me explain.

Under Armour Stock More

Source: Shutterstock

For UAA stock bulls — and bears for that matter — it’s almost officially game time once again. The athletics retailer is set to announce earnings next Tuesday on May 1 in front of the opening bell. Last quarter, investors jumped aggressively into shares following the company’s mixed, but in our view, mostly better-than-expected or feared quarterly results.

Can Under Armour (mostly) deliver again off the field of play — and convincingly so, on the playing pitch of the UAA stock chart for a second time in a row?

InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips

With the expectations bar set reasonably low and the Street forecasting a loss of 4 cents and sales of $1.1 billion, I personally like the long game in UAA stock. And while I wouldn’t call Deutsche Bank a true fan, an upgrade Monday from “sell” to “hold” which cited Under Armour’s “rapidly growing” growth overseas does have us think more of Wall Street’s resident bear population may be jumping on the ‘da bulls bandwagon soon enough.

UAA Stock Daily Chart

It has been nearly three weeks since last penning a bullish article on UAA stock at InvestorPlace. But despite shares being off nearly 6% Under Armour has continued to put together technical signs a meaningful bottom is in place and a new bullish trend is underway.

Following UAA’s March confirmation of an emerging uptrend, shares have continued to hold the key, earnings-driven price support with last week’s additional testing. The price zone is now also backed by a Golden Cross pattern as the 50-day simple moving average has crossed above the 200-day simple moving average.





Further, with Monday’s firm gain clearing both moving trend-lines on increased and above-average volume and maintaining a supportive stochastics set-up; UAA looks increasingly well-positioned on the price chart.

Bottom line, shares may not sprint higher as Under Armour’s overall business growth simply isn’t there right now. But as a turnaround play, I’ll continue to bet on the bulls attacking fresh highs and maybe even scoring championship style returns in 2018.

UAA Stock Bull Call Spread

Reviewing UAA’s options and given our expectation for the recently established uptrend to continue, one favored spread combination remains an out-of-the-money bull call spread. Specifically, with shares at $16.73, the July $20/$22.50 call spread for 28 cents still looks attractive.

This vertical is now priced for half of the 55 cent purchase price detailed in early April when shares were at $17.89. Aside from the even lower cost of entry and limited risk, this play still affords sufficient time on the calendar to enjoy a profitable pay-off. That’s particularly true given next week’s potential earnings catalyst and ‘da bears increasingly on the defensive and vulnerable to covering a losing wager.

Investment accounts under Christopher Tyler’s management currently own positions in Under Armour (UAA) and its derivatives. The information offered is based upon Christopher Tyler’s observations and strictly intended for educational purposes only; the use of which is the responsibility of the individual. For additional market insights and related musings, follow Chris on Twitter @Options_CAT and StockTwits.

More From InvestorPlace

Compare Brokers

The post Under Armour Inc Earnings Could Be a Bullish Game Changer appeared first on InvestorPlace.Every day, Wall Street analysts upgrade some stocks, downgrade others, and "initiate coverage" on a few more. But do these analysts even know what they're talking about? Today, we're taking one high-profile Wall Street pick and putting it under the microscope...

Rumors that Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL) is planning to kill the iPhone X persist.

Earlier this year, analysts at Rosenblatt Securities cited high costs in Apple's flagship model -- not just the cost for consumers to buy it, but also for Apple to build it -- as one reason Apple was likely to cut production rates and potentially even cease production of (the current version) of the iPhone X. Then came another note.

On Friday last week, analysts at little-known securities firm Mirabaud cited weak guidance from an Apple supplier -- Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing -- as evidence that Apple is trying to "burn off inventory" of components needed to build the iPhone X, implying the company is moving to kill the high-end phone model entirely.

Is that good news or bad news for Apple? According to a different analyst today, the answer to that question is beside the point: The one thing Mizuho Securities is sure of is that this is bad news for Skyworks Solutions (NASDAQ: SWKS).

iPhone X laid flat More

Apple's iPhone X sure is a beauty, but will it put Skyworks stock to sleep? Image source: Apple.

What's bad for Apple...

Here's the problem in a nutshell: Sales for Apple's new high-end iPhone X are underwhelming. Analysts expect overall iPhone shipments to be "flat or declining" this year, and average selling prices (ASPs) are expected to be weak as well. (Which is the opposite of what you'd expect if Apple were successfully selling lots of $999 iPhone X smartphones.)

This has analysts like Mirabaud believing "the iPhone X is dead" as a product. The device's $999 price tag is simply too expensive, and "[c]onsumers are turning their backs on high-priced smartphones" in general, warns the analyst. This trend is already making itself felt at Taiwan Semiconductor, and in Mizuho's opinion, Skyworks could be next on the hit list.

...may be worse for Skyworks

Why? "Handset ASPs may be approaching a ceiling," says Mizuho in a note covered today on StreetInsider.com (subscription required). At the same time, device makers like Apple are continuing to load their high-end phones with cutting edge tech like chip-on-film (CoF), 3D sensing, and OLED screens.

If they want to do that, though, and still keep prices at a level that consumers can abide, costs must be trimmed somewhere. Mizuho's worry is that smartphone makers will attempt to cut the cost of their products by "putting pressure on existing RF suppliers" like Skyworks to lower the cost of their components, thereby decreasing Apple's own costs, permitting it to reduce its retail prices while maintaining its own profit margins.

Of course, this would not be great news for Skyworks.

Running the numbers

Hence Mizuho's decision to downgrade Skyworks shares from buy to neutral, and to cut its price target on Skyworks stock from $125 to just $100 a share. But here's the thing:

Even Mizuho's new, more conservative price target still anticipates about a 13% rise in Skyworks' share price over the next 12 months. (Skyworks stock currently costs less than $89 a share.) And when you run the numbers, Skyworks stock actually looks pretty reasonably priced right now.The U.S. Supreme Court building stands in Washington, D.C., U.S., on Friday, April 7, 2017. Judge Neil Gorsuch is poised to win an intensely political confirmation fight to join a Supreme Court already struggling to stay above politics. The Senate's expected confirmation of Gorsuch Friday will restore the generally conservative majority that existed before Justice Antonin Scalia's death last year. Photographer: Andrew Harrer/Bloomberg

The U.S. Supreme Court upheld an administrative review system that has helped Google Inc., Apple Inc. and other companies invalidate hundreds of issued patents.

The justices, voting 7-2, said Tuesday a U.S. Patent and Trademark Office review board that critics call a patent "death squad" wasn’t unconstitutionally wielding powers that belong to the courts.

Silicon Valley companies have used the system as a less-expensive way to ward off demands for royalties, particularly from patent owners derided as "trolls" because they don’t use their patents to make products. Drugmakers and independent inventors complain that it unfairly upends what they thought were established property rights.

“It came down to this: Is the patent office fixing its own mistakes or is the government taking property?” said Wayne Stacy, a patent lawyer with Baker Botts. “They came down on the side of the patent office fixing its own mistakes.”

More from Bloomberg.com: Flight Records Illuminate Mystery of Trump’s Moscow Nights

The ruling caused shares to drop in companies whose main source of revenue -- their patents -- are under threat from challenges. VirnetX Holding Corp., which is trying to protect almost $1 billion in damages it won against Apple, dropped as much as 12 percent and closed down 8.5 percent. The patent office has said its patents are invalid in a case currently before an appeals court.

The court’s ruling “will reassure, if not embolden, patent challengers,” said Christopher Bruno, a patent lawyer with Schiff Hardin. Patent owners are likely to turn their focus to asking courts to scrutinize some of the procedures used by the board, he said.

More from Bloomberg.com: Sessions Declines to Recuse Himself From Probe Into Trump Lawyer

‘Public Rights’

Drugmakers, research companies and independent inventors criticized the Patent Trial and Appeal Board, saying its rules unfairly lean toward challengers and make it harder to fend off competitors and protect their ideas from copycats. Congress set up the system in 2011.

Justice Clarence Thomas wrote the court’s majority opinion, rejecting contentions that issued patents are the type of rights that must be adjudicated only in the federal courts.

"The decision to grant a patent is a matter involving public rights -- specifically, the grant of a public franchise," Thomas wrote. The review system "is simply a reconsideration of that grant, and Congress has permissibly reserved the PTO’s authority to conduct that reconsideration."

More from Bloomberg.com: Stocks Sink as Caterpillar, 3% Yields Rattle Bulls: Markets Wrap

The ruling addressed only whether the reviews are constitutional and doesn’t limit arguments in other contexts that patents are property, Thomas wrote.

“It’s common sense -- we trust them to make these decisions in the first place,” said lawyer Andrew Pincus of Mayer Brown, who submitted legal arguments on behalf of BSA - The Software Alliance. “There are costs to having patents that are overbroad or shouldn’t have been granted. We want to do as much as we can to make sure the experts got it right.”

‘Give a Gift’

Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Neil Gorsuch dissented. “Just because you give a gift doesn’t mean you forever enjoy the right to reclaim it,” Gorsuch wrote for the two.

The Supreme Court also issued a ruling Tuesday in a separate case involving proceedings at the patent review board. In that 5-4 decision , Gorsuch wrote for the court that the board must issue final written decisions on all parts of a patent that are questioned in a challenge, even if the board decides to review only some of them. The effect will force patent owners’ challenges filed at the agency to be more targeted, because they aren’t allowed to raise issues decided by the review board if they go to court later.

Since the reviews began in 2012, more than 7,000 petitions have been filed, primarily on computer and high-tech patents. Former patent office Director Michelle Lee said changes have been made to the process to make it more fair and clear, and more are being considered by the agency.

She said the reviews were “never a death squad” that critics called it, and were set up as a lower-cost alternative to litigation.

The review system was created in response to business complaints about what they considered abusive patent litigation. Other court rulings and changes in how lawsuits are filed have made it easier for accused infringers to fend off lawsuits and demand payment for legal costs when they win.

Story ContinuesThe phrase "Equal Justice Under Law" adorns the west entrance to the U.S. Supreme Court building in Washington December 3, 2014. Picture taken December 3, 2014. REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst

By Andrew Chung

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday gave its stamp of approval to a government review process prized by high technology companies as an easy and cheap way to combat "patent trolls" and others that bring patent infringement lawsuits.

The justices ruled 7-2 that a type of in-house patent review at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office does not violate a defendant's right under the U.S. Constitution to have a case adjudicated by a federal court and jury.

The court ruled against Oil States International Inc (OIS.N), a Houston-based oilfield services company that had challenged the legality of the process, called inter partes review (IPR).

Justices John Roberts and Neil Gorsuch dissented from the decision authored by fellow conservative Justice Clarence Thomas.

While the ruling gave Silicon Valley reason to celebrate, it displeased name-brand drugmakers, which had called the IPR process a threat to innovation. Firms dubbed "patent trolls" have a business model based on suing other companies over patents rather than actually making products.

The U.S. Congress created the reviews in 2011 to handle the perceived high number of flimsy patents issued by the patent office in prior years. Since then, the agency's Patent Trial and Appeal Board has canceled all or part of a patent in about 80 percent of its final decisions. In 2015, it canceled an Oil States patent on protecting wellhead equipment after an IPR proceeding.

These reviews have been especially popular with companies like Apple Inc (AAPL.O) and Samsung Electronics Co Ltd <005930.KS> frequently hit with patent infringement suits. But pharmaceutical companies like AbbVie Inc (ABBV.N), Allergan plc (AGN.N) and Celgene Corp (CELG.O) called for scrapping the IPR system.

Oil States argued that patents are private property that may be the revoked only by a federal court, where the standard for canceling a patent is higher than in the review proceedings.

Thomas, writing for the court, called the IPR process an extension of the Patent and Trademark Office's decision to grant a patent.





'SIMPLY A RECONSIDERATION'

"Inter partes review is simply a reconsideration of that grant, and Congress has permissibly reserved the PTO's authority to conduct that reconsideration," Thomas wrote.

Though it upheld the IPR process, the court in a separate 5-4 ruling on Tuesday faulted one aspect of how the reviews are carried out. The justices ruled that when several parts of a patent are challenged, the patent office does not have the discretion to review only some of them.

Patent office spokesman Paul Fucito said his agency is "carefully considering" Tuesday's rulings and determining their impact on proceedings before its administrative tribunal that conducts the reviews.

More than 30 appeals raising similar questions piled up at the Supreme Court while the justices were preparing to decide the Oil States case, underscoring the continuing impact of these reviews across industries.

A ruling striking down the reviews could have diverted the bulk of patent disputes back to federal courts, where litigation is more drawn out and expensive. A patent office review costs about $350,000 to litigate fully, whereas in district court it could be $3 million, according to Apple.

The case began when an Oil States subsidiary sued in 2012 claiming Houston-based rival Greene's Energy Group infringed its patent for use in the hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of oil wells. Greene's responded by filing an inter partes review. The patent office tribunal later canceled key parts of the patent. A federal appeals court upheld that decision in 2016.

Backed by the President Donald Trump's administration, Greene's Energy also had the support of large technology firms including Alphabet's Google (GOOGL.O) and Intel Corp(INTC.O).





(Reporting by Andrew Chung; Editing by Will Dunham)Stocks are getting smoked on Tuesday.

Each of the major U.S. indexes was in the red, with the Dow seeing the biggest losses, falling 2.2%, or 550 points, while the S&P 500 was also down 1.7% and the Nasdaq was down 1.9%.

The Dow was being dragged lower by shares of Caterpillar (CAT), down over 6% after having rallied earlier in the session following an earnings beat.

In the tech sector, shares of Google parent company Alphabet (GOOGL, GOOG) were down more than 4.5% after reporting earnings on Monday after the market closed. Also lower in sympathy with Alphabet shares were other tech leaders Facebook (FB) and Amazon (AMZN), both down nearly 4%.

Shares of Amazon, Facebook, and Alphabet were all getting sold hard on Tuesday. (Source: Yahoo Finance) More

Earlier in the session, the 10-year Treasury yield topped 3% for the first time since 2014, a move that had been long-awaited by investors as rates have moved up steadily throughout 2018.

Torsten Sløk, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank, said Tuesday that, “Stocks are too worried about 3% today. The earnings season is going really well and at the macro level corporate America has plenty of cash and hence little borrowing needs, so companies are not impacted much by higher long rates.”

Bespoke Investment Group noted Tuesday that between Monday’s close and Tuesday’s market open, 80 companies reported earnings. On average, these stocks rose 1.45% after results but were down an average of more than 2% since the market open on Tuesday.

Stocks were selling off on Tuesday afternoon with the slide accelerating throughout the day. (AP Photo/Richard Drew) More

And this selling pressure could be exacerbated by a lack of corporate buyers, as strategists out of Goldman Sachs highlighted over the weekend.

“80% of S&P 500 firms are in their buyback blackout windows, which means that volatility will likely remain elevated during the next several weeks,” strategists at Goldman Sachs led by David Kostin said. “Since 2000, volatility has typically been higher during blackout periods compared with non-blackout periods given the absence of corporate demand to support share prices.”

In February when stocks fell sharply from an all-time high in just a few days, corporate buyers were seen as buoying markets. A lack of corporate buyers in late March was seen as adding to the pressure stocks came under after the Federal Reserve’s interest rate hike on March 21.

And with many companies still in a blackout period that typically spans the weeks leading up to and the day or two after an earnings report, new buybacks that are not done as part of a pre-set plan can’t be executed. In other words, executives for a company set to report earnings over the next week can’t go to the market to buy back shares of the company today.

When this blackout lifts, 2018 should still end up being a strong year for corporate buybacks, with Kostin noting that S&P 500 companies should end up repurchasing $650 billion worth of stock this year, a 23% increase over 2017.

—

Myles Udland is a writer at Yahoo Finance. Follow him on Twitter @MylesUdland

Read more from Myles here:Ford Motor reports earnings after the close on Wednesday, and the stock is too cheap to ignore given its P/E ratio of 5.83 and dividend yield of 5.43%.Ford Motors Co. (F) just released its latest quarterly financial results, posting earnings of 43 cents per share and total revenues of $41.96 billion.

Cardinal Health, Inc’s CAH third-quarter fiscal 2018 results are scheduled for release on May 3, before the market opens. While results are likely to show a decline in the core Pharmaceutical segment, growth across other segments is likely to make up partially.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2018, the company reported adjusted earnings of $1.51 per share, up 12.7% from the prior-year quarter and also above the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.14. Revenues came in at $35.19 billion, up 6.1% on a year-over-year basis, outpacing the consensus estimate of $34.69 billion.

Notably, Cardinal Health has a negative average earnings surprise of 0.3% for the trailing four quarters.

The Zacks Consensus Estimate for third-quarter earnings is pegged at $1.51, reflecting a decline of 1.3% year over year. The same for revenues is pinned at $33.58 billion, indicating growth of 5.5%.

Cardinal Health, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise

Cardinal Health, Inc. Price and EPS Surprise | Cardinal Health, Inc. Quote

Let’s delve deeper.

Pharmaceutical Segment in Focus

In the last reported quarter, this segment accounted for an enormous 88.5% of the company’s revenues. Revenues in the segment came in at $31.15 billion, up 4.7% on a year-over-year basis.

The segment witnessed strong growth in the Specialty business and also gained a huge number of Pharmaceutical Distribution customers.

However, it saw a 4% drop in profits to $514 million, thanks to generic pharmaceutical pricing and the recent investments in Pharmaceutical IT platform and lackluster generics program performance. Per management, growth in the segment was further impeded by the expiration of a large mail order from Prime Therapeutics.

For the current quarter, the Zacks Consensus Estimate for revenues in at $29.63 billion, down 4.9% sequentially.

Other Factors at Play

Guidance Lifted

Considering the benefits from the slashed federal tax rate, Cardinal Health raised the fiscal 2018 outlook. The company expects adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations of $5.25-$5.50, as compared with the previous range of $4.85-$5.10.

Medical Segment

In the fiscal second quarter, this segment accounted for 11.5% of the company’s revenues. Revenues in the segment grew 18.6% to$4.04 billion, primarily driven by the Patient Recovery acquisition. Medical segment profits increased 38% to $220 million, courtesy of higher contributions from new and existing customers and acquisition of the Patient Recovery business.

For the current quarter, the Zacks Consensus Estimate for revenues of the segment is pegged at $4.07 billion, up 0.7%, sequentially.

Medical Gloves Unit

Cardinal Health offers a robust portfolio of medical gloves including surgical gloves, exam gloves and clean-room gloves. The company has been lately facing challenges in the exam-glove sub-segment. In the last reported quarter, commodity pricing and supply disruptions were major drags for the section.

For fiscal 2018, lower expectations for the Medical segment due a troubled exam-gloves segment raise concerns.

Our quantitative model does not conclusively predict an earnings beat for Cardinal Health this earnings season. This is because a stock needs to have a positive Earnings ESP and a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy), 2 (Buy) or 3 (Hold) to be able to beat estimates.Have you been paying attention to shares of Wintrust Financial Corporation WTFC? Shares have been on the move with the stock up 8.3% over the past month. WTFC hits a new 52-week high of $92.50 in the previous session. Wintrust Financial has gained 11.7% since the start of the year compared to the -1.5% move for the Finance sector and the 6.7% year-to-date return for its peer group.

What's Driving the Outperformance?

The stock has a great record of positive earnings surprises, having beaten the Zacks Consensus Estimate in each of the last four quarters. In its last earnings report on April 16, 2018, Wintrust Financial reported EPS of $1.4 versus the Zacks Consensus Estimate of $1.29 while it beat the consensus revenue estimate by 3.25%.

For the current fiscal year, Wintrust Financial is expected to post earnings of $5.81 per share on $1.31 billion in revenues. This represents a 32.05% change in EPS on a 13.85% change in revenues. For the next fiscal year, the company is expected to earn $6.37 per share on $1.41 billion in revenues. This represents a year-over-year change of 9.53% and 7.24%, respectively.

Valuation Metrics

Wintrust Financial may be at a 52-week high right now, but what might the future hold for WTFC? A key aspect of this question is taking a look at valuation metrics in order to determine if the company is due for a pullback from this level.

On this front, we can look at the Zacks Style Scores, as they provide investors with an additional way to sort through stocks (beyond looking at the Zacks Rank of a security). These styles are represented by grades running from A to F in the categories of Value, Growth, and Momentum, while there is a combined VGM Score as well. The idea behind the style scores is to help investors pick the most appropriate Zacks Rank stocks based on their individual investment style.

Wintrust Financial has a Value Score of B. The stock's Growth and Momentum Scores are B and A, respectively, giving the company a VGM Score of A.

In terms of its value breakdown, the stock currently trades at 15.8X current fiscal year EPS estimates. On a trailing cash flow basis, the stock currently trades at 15.8X versus its peer group's average of 14.5X. Additionally, the stock has a PEG ratio of 1.17. This isn't enough to put the company in the top echelon of all stocks we cover from a value perspective.

Wintrust Financial Corporation Price and Consensus

Wintrust Financial Corporation Price and Consensus | Wintrust Financial Corporation Quote

Zacks Rank

We also need to look at the Zacks Rank for the stock, as this supersedes any trend on the style score front. Fortunately, Wintrust Financial currently has a Zacks Rank of #2 (Buy) thanks to favorable earnings estimate revisions from covering analysts.

Since we recommend that investors select stocks carrying Zacks Rank of 1 (Strong Buy) or 2 and Style Scores of A or B, it looks as if Wintrust Financial passes the test. Thus, it seems as though WTFC shares could have potential in the weeks and months to come.

How Does Wintrust Financial Corporation Stack Up to the Competition?

Shares of Wintrust Financial Corporation have been moving higher, and the company still appears to be a decent choice, but what about the rest of the industry? Some of its industry peers are also looking good, including Farmers National Banc FMNB, First Financial Bancorp. FFBC, and Chemical Financial Corporation CHFC, all of which currently have a Zacks Rank of at least #2 and a VGM Score of at least B, making them well-rounded choices.FILE - In this Oct. 25, 2011 file photo, a Conoco sign shines in Dallas. The Houston-based company said on Wednesday, April 25, 2018, that it won a $2 billion arbitration award against Venezuela's state oil company over the seizure a decade ago of investments in two projects in the OPEC nation. (AP Photo/LM Otero, File)

CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) — ConocoPhillips said Wednesday that it won a $2 billion arbitration award against Venezuela's state oil company, compounding the financial woes of the socialist-run nation as it struggles to feed its population.

The award represents the equivalent of more than 20 percent of the cash-strapped government's foreign currency reserves.

The Houston-based company said in a statement that the ruling against PDVSA by an International Chamber of Commerce panel was final and binding.

"ConocoPhillips will pursue enforcement and seek financial recovery of its award to the full extent of the law," the company said in a statement.

But collecting the judgment won't be easy, as President Nicolas Maduro is holding on to the few dollars trickling into the country from plummeting oil production and amid sanctions by the Trump administration barring U.S investors from lending money to the government.

There was no immediate comment from Venezuela's government.

The ruling arose from the expropriation of ConocoPhillips' investments in two heavy crude oil projects in 2007 at a time then President Hugo Chavez increased the state's take of record oil rents, forcing foreign oil companies to accept less generous terms. Many instead left the country and sued to hold up their original contracts.

ConocoPhillips is pursuing separate legal action against Venezuela's government under the auspices of the World Bank's investment dispute mechanism. The World Bank tribunal has already ruled that Venezuela broke international law when it nationalized Conoco's stakes in the two fields. Proceedings are underway to determine the amount of compensation.

Venezuela still faces 22 arbitration cases at the World Bank, more than any other country in the world, with potential losses stretching into the billions.By Marianna Parraga

HOUSTON (Reuters) - An international arbitration court has ordered Venezuela's state-run oil company PDVSA to pay ConocoPhillips (COP.N) $2.04 billion for early dissolution of two joint ventures for producing oil in the OPEC-member country, the U.S. firm said on Wednesday.

Conoco's assets in Venezuela were expropriated in 2007 following a nationalisation of the country's oil industry led by late President Hugo Chavez. The firm left the nation after it could not reach a deal to convert its projects into joint ventures controlled by PDVSA [PDVSA.UL].

The arbitration decision, released by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), which has no means of enforcing its decisions, is considered by the U.S. company a first step in a series of legal actions to receive compensation for the expropriation of its assets in Venezuela.

PDVSA did not respond to a request for comment.

Venezuela's cash-constrained economy, almost completely dependent on oil exports, is in the grip of deep recession with hyperinflation and severe shortages of medicine and food. Its ability to pay has also been hurt by U.S. sanctions imposed on the country and PDVSA.

Conoco said it would pursue enforcement and seek financial recovery of its award but did not elaborate. Other companies seeking compensation from Venezuela have tried to enforce awards through various foreign courts.

"The ruling upholds the contractual protections to which ConocoPhillips is entitled," said Janet Langford Carrig, the Houston-based company's general counsel who called the expropriation "unlawful."

Conoco had sought up to $22 billion from PDVSA for the broken contracts and loss of future profits from the Hamaca and Petrozuata oil projects. The agreements with PDVSA had price formulas that limited the compensation Conoco could claim.





A separate arbitration case by Conoco against Venezuela before the World Bank's International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID) introduced in 2007 could issue a final decision later this year, a lawyer close to the case said.

A partial decision by ICSID in 2013, which declared the takeover unlawful, is considered by Conoco a "positive step" towards receiving more compensation for its Venezuela assets.

ExxonMobil Corp (XOM.N), also brought two separate arbitration claims before ICSID and the ICC following the 2007 nationalisation of its projects in Venezuela. The company last year sought to enforce a $1.6 billion ICSID award after an annulment committee threw out nearly all of the arbitration decision that concerned one of two projects, reducing the payout to $188.3 million.





(Reporting by Marianna Parraga; Additional reporting by Deisy Buitrago; Editing by David Gregorio and Lisa Shumaker)U.S. oil company Chevron evacuated its executives from Venezuela following the arrest of two employees by national intelligence authorities over an alleged contract dispute with Petróleos de Venezuela, the country’s state-owned energy company. Chevron also ordered other personnel to refrain from entering the facilities of its joint venture with PDVSA, sources told Reuters Wednesday.

It was not immediately clear when Chevron ordered its executives to leave Venezuela. The company said Tuesday it would not comment on “personnel matters,” Reuters reported. Despite the legal dispute, Chevron has no plans to leave the country because it hopes that the country will find stability, Reuters said.

The company announced last week that it was working to release Carlos Luis Algarra and René Vasquez, who were arrested April 17 in the coastal city of Puerto la Cruz. The arrested workers could face charges of treason after refusing to sign a contract for furnace parts because they claimed the price for the parts was too high.

Trending: Weapons Looted From Emirati-Run Military Training Site in Somalia Are Being Sold on the Black Market, Reports Say

Chevron-Venezuela More

Justin Sullivan/Getty Images

This is not the first time the Maduro administration has clamped down on oil executives. In recent months, the Venezuelan attorney general’s office ordered the apprehension of a dozen executives from PDVSA who were accused of bribery. President Nicolás Maduro has supported his administration’s initiative to combat corruption within the oil sector, calling those involved in dubious activities “traitors” and “thieves,” Mexican newspaper Excélsior reported.

At least 150 Chevron employees work in the Puerto la Cruz facilities, Reuters reported. The company’s revenues in Venezuela plummeted 18 percent last year to $329 million, based on local reports, amid the country's growing economic woes, political turmoil and crippled infrastructure. The country's deteriorating living conditions have also forced other companies, such as France's Total and Italy's ENI, to reduce investment and personnel.

Don't miss: ‘Winds of Winter’ Release Date 2018? Nope, but GRRM Reveals ‘Fire & Blood’

Chevron has faced legal disputes in Latin America in the past. Last week, a group of Ecuadorian indigenous people brought a case against Chevron Canada in an Ontario court, arguing that the plaintiffs should take over the subsidiary's shares to pay for the pollution its parent company allegedly generated in their country decades ago, the Toronto Star reported. Even though the plaintiffs do not blame Chevron Canada for the company’s damages, they want the Canadian judicial system to enforce the Ecuadorian Supreme Court's 2011 ruling, which stipulated that Chevron had to pay $9.5 billion in reparations.

Despite Ecuador's ruling in favor of the indigenous group, the company has not operated there for decades, and an American judge prohibited any U.S. court from enforcing the decision against Chevron.

This article was first written by Newsweek

More from NewsweekFILE PHOTO: Visitors look at motherboards being displayed at the AMD booth during the 2012 Computex exhibition at the TWTC Nangang exhibition hall in Taipei June 6, 2012. REUTERS/Yi-ting Chung/File Photo

By Muvija M

(Reuters) - Advanced Micro Devices Inc's quarterly profit and revenue topped Wall Street targets as the chipmaker benefited from higher prices and demand for graphics chips used in personal computers, gaming consoles and cryptocurrency mining.

The chipmaker's forecast for current-quarter revenue also exceeded expectations, and AMD's shares jumped more than 9 percent in after-hours trading on Wednesday.

The stock has climbed over 250 percent in the past two years as the Santa Clara, California-based company benefits from demand for graphics chips used in computers, videogame consoles and for a variety of other applications.

To tap rising demand for chips from data centers, AMD has also developed newer editions of server processors.

Demand for AMD's Radeon series of graphics products remained strong in the first three months of the year as new high-quality videogames were released, Chief Executive Lisa Su said on a call with analysts.

"Our financial progress in the first quarter is attributable to the ongoing strength of Radeon and Ryzen products as well as continued early contributions from our EPYC products," Chief Financial Officer Devinder Kumar said, referring to AMD's EPYC line of server products and Ryzen PC processors.

AMD has also continued to benefit from last year's boom in cryptocurrencies, as graphics chips provide the high computing ability required for mining popular virtual currencies such as bitcoin and ethereum.

Cryptocurrency mining accounted for some 10 percent of AMD's overall revenue in the first quarter, Kumar said.

Still, gaming would continue to be a "top priority" for the company, Su said.

AMD reported a net income of $81 million in the three months ended March 31, compared with a net loss of $33 million a year earlier.

Excluding one-time items, AMD earned 11 cents per share, ahead of analysts' average estimate of 9 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Revenue jumped 40 percent to $1.65 billion, topping expectations of $1.57 billion as sales at its key computing and graphics business nearly doubled.

AMD expects current-quarter revenue of $1.73 billion, give or take $50 million, while analysts were expecting revenue of $1.57 billion.

(Reporting by Muvija M in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Sai Sachin Ravikumar)FILE PHOTO: A Visa credit card is seen on a computer keyboard in this picture illustration taken September 6, 2017. REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer/Illustration/File Photo

(Reuters) - Visa Inc (V.N) topped Wall Street targets for quarterly profit and raised its full-year earnings forecast on Wednesday, as more people use credit cards worldwide to buy everything from gas to online goods.

The world's largest payments network, like its smaller rival Mastercard Inc (MA.N), gets most of its revenue through transaction fees, which are earned every time a customer swipes their credit or debit card on the company's network.

Visa has seen card payments grow thanks to higher U.S. consumer spending and rising oil prices.

Higher gas prices translate to a higher dollar volume in transaction fees for Visa.

The company said payment volumes rose 11 percent to $1.99 trillion (£1.43 trillion) on a constant dollar basis for the second quarter, with the United States accounting for about 43 percent of the total amount.

Cross-border volumes – the value of transactions made outside the United States – rose 11 percent on constant dollar basis.

Visa's shares rose 2.7 percent to $124.52 in after-hours trading on Wednesday.

The company now expects full-year adjusted earnings to grow at the high end of a mid-20s percentage digit forecast.

Visa expects double-digit expense growth in the third quarter, due to personnel costs, increased investments and the upcoming FIFA World Cup in Russia, in which the company is an official payment services partner.

Total operating expenses in the second quarter rose 4 percent to $1.74 billion.

Its net operating revenue rose 13 percent to $5.07 billion in the quarter ended March 31.

Net income rose to $2.61 billion from $430 million a year earlier. Earnings per Class A share rose to $1.11 from 18 cents a year earlier.

Analysts on average had expected earnings of $1.02 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.





(Reporting by Pallavi Dewan and Diptendu Lahiri in Bengaluru; Editing by Sai Sachin Ravikumar, Bernard Orr)FILE PHOTO: The PayPal logo is seen at a high-tech park in Beersheba, southern Israel August 28, 2017. REUTERS/Amir Cohen/File Photo

By Aishwarya Venugopal and Anna Irrera

(Reuters) - PayPal Holdings Inc on Wednesday reported first-quarter profit that beat Wall Street estimates as the payment processor benefited from higher volumes of mobile payments and strong merchant services business.

PayPal processed $132 billion in payments in the first quarter of 2018, up 32 percent from a year earlier.

Mobile payment volumes were up 52 percent in the quarter to $49 billion, while merchant services payment volumes grew 30 percent and accounted for 87 percent of total payment volumes.

Shares of the company, which closed down 1.7 percent, rose 3.3 pct to $76.43 after the bell.

"Overall we believe this was a solid quarter for PayPal," Josh Olson, a senior analyst at Edward Jones Research, said in a note. "As the digital payments leader, we see PayPal benefiting from the fast-growing industry."

Since separating from online marketplace eBay in 2015, PayPal has reshaped itself from mostly processing transactions for its parent company to offering an array of global digital payment services.

These range from small business lending to facilitating money transfers between merchants and customers, as well as friends and family.

The company has sought to grow through acquisitions and partnerships with large banks and technology firms including Bank of America Corp, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Apple Inc and Facebook Inc.

PayPal recently introduced a Mastercard payments card to enable customers to spend their PayPal balance in millions of physical stores and partnered with popular Kenyan mobile payments service M-pesa.

"We are clearly transforming from a payments button to an open digital payments platform," CEO Dan Schulman said on an earnings call with analysts.

"The goal of that platform is to enable merchants to compete in the mobile, digital payments world," Schulman added in an interview.

Venmo, the company's peer-to-peer payments app, processed more than $12 billion in payments in the quarter up 80 percent over the same period last year.

The San Jose, California based company raised revenue forecast for the full year to $15.2 billion to $15.4 billion from $15 billion to $15.2 billion.

Net income rose to $511 million, or 42 cents per share, in the quarter ended March 31, from $384 million, or 32 cents per share, a year earlier.

Excluding one-time items, the company earned 57 cents per share, beating the average analyst estimate of 54 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Net revenue rose about 24 percent to $3.69 billion, beating expectations of $3.59 billion.





(Reporting by Anna Irrera in New York and Aishwarya Venugopal and Diptendu Lahiri in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Cynthia Osterman)