(CNN) Red-state Democrats running for Senate in 2018 cautiously backed President Donald Trump's decision to approve targeted strikes in Syria. But now that the strikes have happened, almost all are urging the President to make his future plans in Syria clear and come to Congress for approval.

The Democratic support ranges from full-throated endorsements to tepid backing, but most Democrats running for the Senate in 2018 for now back the strikes.

The skeptical backing by Democrats charting runs against Trump's Republican Party in 2018 stands in contrast with the majority of Republicans who have backed the strikes wholeheartedly, using them as a sign that Trump will take action where past Democrats -- namely former President Barack Obama -- failed.

Sen. Bill Nelson, a Florida Democrat who is facing an pricey and competitive race against Gov. Rick Scott, tweeted Saturday night that he supports the attack "because Assad must be held accountable for the use of chemical weapons," referring to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Sen. Joe Donnelly, one of the most vulnerable Democrat running in 2018, said in a statement that he supports the "international military response, which demonstrates that there are consequences for using chemical weapons on innocent civilians."

He added: "Now, I want to hear from the president, the military and our diplomatic leaders on the strategy moving forward."

And Rep. Kyrsten Sinema, the Arizona Democrat running for Senate, backed the strikes as an important message "that the use of these heinous weapons will not be tolerated," but later said Trump now must "work with Congress to develop a clear, unified and effective strategy to end the conflict in Syria."

Hours after the strikes, the Trump administration pledged future action in Syria if Assad continues to use chemical weapons.

"If the Syrian regime uses this poisonous gas again, the United States is locked and loaded," US Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said Saturday. "When our President draws a red line, our President enforces a red line."

Most of the 2018 Democrats are demanding that Trump come to Congress before striking to Syria again. But Sen. Tim Kaine, a safer Virginia Democrat who is running for reelection in 2018, blasted Trump's decision to strike Syria without congressional approval.

"President Trump's decision to launch airstrikes against the Syrian government without Congress's approval is illegal and -- absent a broader strategy -- it's reckless," Kaine said. "Last week, President Trump was adamant that the U.S. was leaving Syria imminently. This week, he is opening a new military front."

He added: "We need to put clear limits in place before he starts another war, and I'm working to do just that."

But Kaine's view was not widely held.

Former Tennessee Gov. Phil Bredesen tweeted that Trump's action was "justified."

"The chemical attacks in Syria compel us to act decisively in cooperation with our allies. If the President intends further action, I trust Congress will take up its Constitutional war-making responsibilities. Godspeed to our military," he wrote.

Sen. Heidi Heitkamp wrote a lengthy Facebook post about the attacks which empathized with the plight of the civilians in Syria and described the images of chemical attack victims as "incredibly sad and disturbing."

Though Heitkamp said, "Assad must be held accountable for his egregious human rights violations and the gassing of his own people — a crime against international law and humanity as well as an act of unspeakable cowardice," she never directly says that she backs the strikes. She does, however, call for Trump to present an "updated, clear strategy that carefully considers the next appropriate military and diplomatic steps while avoiding an extended military conflict."

"Any U.S. military action in the region must be wary of dragging our armed forces into a protracted and broader conflict in the region, especially as our military faces challenges impacting U.S. interests around the globe. Particularly during these fraught times, I'm thinking of our servicemembers both at home and abroad," she wrote. "Going forward, Congress must be involved in decisions about further action and must vote to authorize military force."

In a statement, Ohio Sen. Sherrod Brown described the strikes as a "targeted and proportional response to the Assad regime's gruesome attacks on civilians, and it's important that our allies in Britain and France were part of this process."

But he added that Trump now must "present a long-term strategy to the American people, and he must win their support before taking further military action."

Sen. Tina Smith, who will run in the special election for former Sen. Al Franken's Minnesota seat this year, said "Assad and his supporters must be held accountable for their actions."

"An airstrike launch like this should be done with a clear strategy and with input and authorization from Congress. We have a Constitution," she said, adding, "I don't want to see our country end up in another broad, no-end-in-sight military engagement that puts the lives of servicemembers at risk."Washington (CNN) Here are the stories our D.C. insiders are talking about in this week's "Inside Politics" forecast, where you get a glimpse of tomorrow's headlines today.

1. RNC's $250 million midterm plan

Republicans are worried about an enthusiasm gap in November; Democrats are much more fired up about the midterms. But the Republican National Committee hopes to close that gap by pouring a quarter-billion dollars into its ground game.

"This really underscores a couple of things," the AP's Julie Pace reports. "One, the RNC remains a fundraising juggernaut despite a lot of the worries about the midterms. But two, it does underscore those worries. Republicans are incredibly nervous about this enthusiasm we are seeing," Pace says.

"They are really concerned about the impact this could have on the Trump presidency if Democrats take control of Congress."

2. Missouri governor echoes Trump

Republican Gov. Eric Greitens is facing criminal invasion of privacy charges related to an affair he had before taking office. And a new report from the state legislature accuses him of subjecting the woman to nonconsensual sexual activity and violence.

But Greitens says he won't resign, and he's calling the whole thing a "witch hunt." Sound familiar?

The New York Times' Jonathan Martin has spoken to a source who has talked directly with Greitens, and reports the Missouri governor "is consciously echoing the language of the President in his public remarks defending himself against these accusations," Martin says.

"The attempt here basically is to test whether or not other politicians can do what President Trump does, which is basically deny everything, attack your accusers, and hope that the base of your party will basically side with you."

3. Will Congress protect Mueller?

A bipartisan group of senators is pushing a law that would make it much tougher for the President to fire special counsel Robert Mueller. So far it doesn't have the support of the Republican leadership, but that could change.

"The question is going to be, can these two sides -- Democrats and Republicans -- actually trust each other enough to get this done?" says Washington Post reporter Karoun Demirjian.

4. Trump and the GOP leadership race

House Speaker Paul Ryan says he'll hang up his gavel at the end of the year, and wants his deputy, Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, to succeed him. But that doesn't make it a done deal. Members of the House Freedom Caucus are pushing one of their own, Rep. Jim Jordan.

That's why McCarthy wants to enlist a key ally: President Donald Trump.

CNN's Jeff Zeleny has spoken to top White House aides. They "tell me he is going to stay on the sidelines of this potential speaker's fight. He's not going to get engaged, but we do know he is close to Kevin McCarthy. And Kevin McCarthy is eager to get the President's support," Zeleny says. "He wants that endorsement bad."

5. Ryan: I won't leave early

House Speaker Paul Ryan is as adamant in private as he has been in public about keeping hold of the gavel through January, GOP sources say, all but killing an initial push by McCarthy allies for a quick leadership vote.

As CNN's John King reports, even before Ryan's public announcement last week that he would not seek re-election, McCarthy allies began promoting the virtue of a quick election, even giving just after the Memorial Day break as a target.

"Because a six-month leadership race further splits the conference," an outside McCarthy ally told CNN in the minutes after word of Ryan's decision broke. "A quick smooth transition is best and limits the likelihood of a challenge from the Freedom Caucus."

Ryan, though, says he wants to "run through the tape," and those public comments about serving as speaker through January have held up in private conversations as well.

"Speaker says staying speaker to the end," the same McCarthy ally said in a Saturday email exchange about the House GOP leadership situation.

Ryan is on record backing McCarthy's rise to the top House GOP leadership slot, and there is nothing to suggest there will be any credible push or pressure for Ryan to reconsider his plan to keep the gavel through his term.

So McCarthy allies are preparing for a longer campaign, and with that time comes some uncertainty: If Republicans lose the House in November, a January House GOP election would be to pick a minority leader, not a speaker. And while McCarthy is the clear early favorite, his allies worry a big election loss could affect the mood -- and the math -- for that vote.(CNN) The New York Working Families Party, an influential coalition of labor unions and progressive activist groups, voted on Saturday to endorse Cynthia Nixon in her primary challenge to Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo.

After hours of discussion, and in defiance of pleas from state committee members pushing to delay the decision, the party formally broke its uneasy alliance with Cuomo, the two-term governor leading Nixon in one early poll by a 3-to-1 margin.

Nixon arrived at the Albany Hilton as debate over the endorsement pinged back and forth in a basement ballroom, only entering to applause after the results of ballot -- which she ultimately carried with 91.5% of the vote -- were confirmed and trumpeted by party leaders.

Taking the podium, Nixon thanked the committee members for their "courage" and called the WFP, which has come under assault this week from inside and out -- with two major unions leaving the fold in protest after it became clear Nixon was all but locked into the endorsement -- the "political home for progressives in New York State, and a source of grassroots muscle for the movement."

"You have stood up," Nixon said as supporters swarmed her and New York City Councilman Jumaane Williams, a lieutenant governor candidate and Nixon's likely running mate. "And you have stood up because you know what I know -- and what the thousands of Americans across this country who are running for office for the first time know. You know and I know and they know that if we want change, if we want a country and a state that works for all of us, if we want that to happen, it's on us."

In so publicly rejecting Cuomo, the small party now finds itself at the center of a wider conflict pitting the state's liberal establishment against a growing progressive movement. To put a fine point on it, Nixon welcomed another endorsement earlier in the day from the New York Progressive Action Network, an organization formed by supporters of Sen. Bernie Sanders' 2016 presidential campaign.

The Cuomo campaign, in a statement released after the WFP vote, touted the governor's liberal record and alluded to his recent role in brokering an end to a power-sharing deal between state Senate Republicans and a breakaway group of Democratic lawmakers.

"After nearly a decade of discord, we have a united Democratic Party, and the governor is 100 percent focused on maintaining that unity to fight Trump in Washington, take back the House and win the state Senate," Abbey Fashouer, a Cuomo campaign spokeswoman, said in a statement. "The schism between the progressive unions who founded the WFP and some of its member organizations is unfortunate, but in that divide the governor stands with the unions who have left the WFP and no longer feel it represents the interests of middle- and working-class New Yorkers."

Endorsement follows days of drama

The WFP vote was, as one attendee muttered on her way into the downtown Albany hotel earlier in the day, "kind of a foregone conclusion" after Cuomo on Friday evening announced he would no longer seek the party's backing. His decision to cede the fight, a move critics dismissed as a transparent attempt to save face, followed a dramatic 24-hour unraveling within the WFP, as union backers fled under what party leaders described as pressure from Cuomo.

"In a meeting earlier this week, the governor was threatening people," WFP State Director Bill Lipton said on Friday. "Several times, he said 'if unions or anyone give money to any of these groups, they can lose my number.' Our friends in labor are in a tight spot, and we respect their decision."

Lipton kept up the conciliatory tone on Saturday, casting the union defectors not as turncoats, but victims of a pressure campaign by Cuomo and his allies.

The Cuomo campaign denied on Friday that the governor threatened anyone -- a message echoed by Héctor Figueroa, president of the Service Employees International Union Local 32BJ -- and cited the union departures when it announced Cuomo would "not be seeking the endorsement of the third party line at (the WFP's) convention next month."

Earlier in the day, two unions crucial to the WFP's organization and financing announced that they would leave the party rather than support Nixon.

"Endorsing Governor Cuomo is the most effective way to put the interest of working families first," said Figueroa and Dennis Trainor, vice president of Communication Workers of America District 1, in a statement. "The latest developments show that the current leadership of the WFP disagrees with that approach, and we have been unable to convince them otherwise. For that reason, we are not attending tomorrow's state committee meeting and will be pulling out of the New York State Working Families Party."

As the rift became clear, and The New York Times published a report detailing a behind-the-scenes pressure campaign, the WFP's Lipton wrote in a fundraising email that unions' absence will "hit us hard." Then he turned his attention to Cuomo.

"I want to be clear about what's happening: rather than go before the members of our State Committee this weekend and make an argument as to why he deserves our endorsement, Governor Cuomo has instead chosen to respond the only way he knows how: retaliating with bullying and threats," Lipton wrote." In doing so, he has put our union sisters and brothers in an almost impossible spot."

After the WFP meeting was adjourned on Saturday, Nixon was asked about the damaging battles of the past few days. Like Lipton, she accused Cuomo of attempting to drive out his political opponents with too heavy a hand -- and worried that it would cripple the organizations that rely in large part on labor's support to fund their work.

"The part of this week that has troubled me the most is the threats that we have heard coming to defund not only the Working Families Party, but the community groups that have failed to endorse the governor," she told reporters. "I don't think the governor's demand for loyalty should go that far. I think this is a democracy and people should endorse the people they want to endorse and not have their livelihoods put in danger."

Cuomo allies pile-on the WFP

While Lipton and activist organizations -- like Make the Road Action, a leading immigrants' rights group that endorsed Nixon on Friday -- were careful to blame the crack-up on Cuomo, at least one labor leader offered a more scathing indictment of the WFP.

Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, took aim at Lipton on Friday and cast the latest developments as the logical conclusion of a growing, years-long estrangement.

"As a reminder, 90% of the union movement who started the Working Families Party left four years ago -- the only thing that happened today is that the rest of labor followed," Appelbaum said in a Friday statement. "There's no truth to what Bill Lipton is saying -- this is nothing more than a diversionary tactic. Labor is leaving the party we started because Bill Lipton is using it for his own personal agenda."

The pile-on continued into the weekend, as other union leaders lambasted the WFP, which was founded in New York in 1998, for straying from the charter of its founders.

"Mr. Lipton is misguided and delusional if he believes the Working Families Party still represents the voices of labor and working people in New York," said Michael Mulgrew, president of the United Federation of Teachers. "We walked away years ago when it became evident that their focus was on personal political agendas and a few egos. When asked to behave responsibly, they react like children throwing a tantrum in the classroom."

On Saturday, Cuomo's campaign forwarded a statement from Mike McGuire, director of the Mason Tenders District Council, who left the party after 2014.

"The WFP was a good concept," he said, as if mourning its demise. "Unfortunately, it was never allowed to become what it was supposed to be, because the agenda was always driven by the so-called progressives running the staff.

Lipton began Saturday's proceedings by conceding the obvious.

"This has been a rough week for the Working Families Party," he said. It was a line he returned to hours later as WFP staffers rushed to draft and email out highlights from the meeting, before adding with some defiance: "What you're seeing, in this and lots of others around the country, is the emergence of a new national political movement that is saying to the Democratic Party, put working families first, not your donors, or get out of the way."Ballinger, Texas (CNN) Beto O'Rourke, his wife Amy and two staffers -- one streaming it all live on Facebook -- all pile out of a maroon Dodge Caravan rental at the courthouse here on a recent Friday afternoon.

They are in Runnels County, a county in rural Central Texas where Donald Trump won 86% of the vote in 2016, to meet Republican county judge Barry Hilliard and ask which issues are on his mind. The first thing out of Hilliard's mouth: Second Amendment rights are under attack. "It's a dire situation," he said.

The two debated gun control measures briefly. "I'll be the first to admit I have a lot to learn about it," O'Rourke politely conceded, even as he explained that AR-15s leave exit wounds the size of an orange.

But the point wasn't debating gun control -- it was that O'Rourke showed up in Runnels County at all.

"It felt like we got a real, substantive conversation," O'Rourke said afterward.

As the van pulls away, he hops out for a picture by a statue in front of the courthouse.

That was 234 of the 254 counties in Texas down -- 20 to go.

Stops like Runnels County on a recent six-day, 1,600-mile road trip are at the heart of O'Rourke's effort to unseat Sen. Ted Cruz and become the first Democrat to win statewide in Texas in 24 years -- in part by showing up and convincing voters in often-ignored regions that he cares about their interests.

O'Rourke will need these voters to have a shot at winning.

In his March primary, O'Rourke won just 62% of the Democratic vote. It's a reality that O'Rourke chalks up to a travel schedule and online advertising push built with the general election in mind, but it shows he still has to sell himself to the Democratic base, too.

Republicans also bested Democrats in turnout in the primary, with 1.3 million voting for Cruz compared to 644,632 votes for O'Rourke. In order to defeat Cruz, O'Rourke will have to win over voters who haven't voted for a Democrat statewide in over two decades.

The stakes are high: An O'Rourke win could give Democrats a shot at winning control of the Senate in November's midterm elections. And after a long string of disappointments -- including Wendy Davis's 21-point loss in the governor's race four years ago -- Democrats here say they're ready to try something different.

And that something different might be shunning the support of national Democrats and progressive groups.

O'Rourke, the 45-year-old congressman who spent the early '90s as the bass player in the punk rock band Foss, raised a stunning $6.7 million from 141,000 people in 2018's first three months -- by far the best of all this year's Senate candidates in both parties. That's all despite a pledge not to take any money from political action committees. It's a step beyond what other candidates have promised before: In addition to rejecting corporate cash, O'Rourke is turning down checks from PACs run by left-leaning groups whose positions he strongly supports.

Instead, he's relying on a massive base of small-dollar donors cultivated by Revolution Messaging, the firm behind Bernie Sanders' vaunted 2016 digital operation -- as well as personal appeal that comes in part from showing up in places where many Democrats say they haven't seen a statewide candidate since Ann Richards.

He first won his House seat by ousting Democratic Rep. Silvestre Reyes in a primary. He voted against Nancy Pelosi for House speaker. He gained more than two million eyeballs -- including Mark Zuckerberg's -- by driving 16 hours to Washington during a snowstorm with Texas Republican Rep. Will Hurd, a top target in November's midterm elections, and livestreaming the trip on Facebook.

He told a Bernie Sanders supporter in Midland on Saturday that he didn't want Sanders, Hillary Clinton or any other outsiders in Texas campaigning for him.

He also pledged to leave the political stage quickly: He'd only serve two terms, he said in Midland.

And if O'Rourke is successful, national Democrats -- including 2020 presidential campaigns -- could learn lessons from his race.

The one O'Rourke said he hopes is adopted by other Democrats: Rejecting not just corporate money but all political action committee contributions. He said he sees it as responsible for his online fundraising bonanza.

"That's a game-changer," O'Rourke said. "It's just wrong. Interests are paying for access. And it's confusing to people -- is my member of Congress voting for this interest or corporation or are they for me?"

***

Why do Democrats find O'Rourke so compelling?

It starts with his decision to stream much of his campaign -- town halls, road trips, one-on-one meetings -- on Facebook Live.

Other candidates have had the same idea before: Kentucky Republican Sen. Rand Paul once broadcast an entire day on the Iowa campaign trail in October 2015 on Periscope.

But because O'Rourke does it all day, every day and because many of the moments he captures -- like stopping for gas -- are so mundane, it all comes across as more genuine.

And people watch: 9,000 Facebookers tuned in for his meeting with Hilliard in Runnels County. That's a small audience for an O'Rourke livestream, but it's nearly double the number of people who voted in the 2016 presidential election in Runnels County.

"Beto's like a Beatle. I mean, there's like Beto-mania," said Laura Moser, one of the two Democrats in a runoff to take on Rep. John Culberson for a Houston-area House seat.

David Rosen, the Midland County Democratic chairman, after about 250 people turned out to hear O'Rourke on a Saturday morning, said the crowd was dotted with people who typically vote for Republicans.

"It's not only the moment, it's him," Rosen said of O'Rourke. "He's energetic, he speaks well, he conveys his ideas well, and he acknowledges that he is not a far-left Democrat, a far-right Democrat -- he's concerned about getting things done, and he reaches across the aisle. And people love that."

Over dinner afterward at Mi Cocina, a Mexican restaurant in Sterling City, Texas, O'Rourke said he thinks the appearances in rural Texas and the livestreams allow supporters and volunteers to feel invested in his campaign, like they're a part of it.

He said he's not sure whether other candidates could replicate what he's doing. "I totally get some people, like, 'I don't want people to see me eating a cheeseburger,'" he said.

"It's not for everybody."

***

On the campaign trail, O'Rourke rarely says Cruz's name -- referring to only "the junior senator from Texas" at campaign events.

But type O'Rourke's name into Google and this ad text pops up: "Beat Ted Cruz | Join Beto O'Rourke's Campaign."

O'Rourke admits he'll have to confront Cruz more directly in the coming months.

"I just don't want it to be about being against somebody else. I don't want a town hall to be, 'Ted Cruz this, Ted Cruz that,'" O'Rourke said.

It likely won't be up to him.

Cruz greeted O'Rourke's March primary victory with a radio ad that referred to him as "Robert O'Rourke" and mocked him for going by a nickname, "Beto," that O'Rourke says his parents gave him as a small child growing up in El Paso.

O'Rourke said he still gets asked about the Cruz ad, and usually just tries to breeze past it.

"Our country's deserving of more. But I can also acknowledge that's politics. I guess I just try to answer the questions directly and then move on to things that are interesting," he said.

O'Rourke is also much more liberal than most of the 10 Democratic senators running in states Trump won this year.

He told students at the University of Houston that he supports the legalization of marijuana. He campaigned in Midland for "Medicare for all," the Sanders-backed single-payer health care program. He told a crowd in Brady, Texas, that he liked an idea he'd heard from a voter to raise the corporate income tax from 21% to 25%.

Yet at campaign stops, O'Rourke insists he's not interested in the party identification of the people he meets.

Lizzie Pannill Fletcher, the other Democrat in that House race in Houston, said, "His approach to campaigning, the fact that he's going to all 254 counties in Texas, the fact that he's accessible and approachable -- people respond to him and they like him and they are enthusiastic about our chances of winning across the board."Washington (CNN) The results of Tuesday's special election in western Pennsylvania offer an ominous sign for Republican hopes of defending the House this fall. CNN is making changes to its rating of 17 House races -- all of them in the direction of the Democrats.

Democrat Conor Lamb is poised to deliver a stunning upset in a district that President Donald Trump won by 20 percentage points less than two years ago. That performance, combined with 2017 wins in Alabama, Virginia and New Jersey, and strong showings in previous special elections, all reflect the headwinds Republicans are facing in November's midterm elections.

In light of Tuesdays results, there are several districts that now appear more favorable for Democrats this year, with a similar mix of candidate quality, district composition and, in some cases, concerns about the Republican incumbent, or they represent open seats.

Of the 12 races CNN now rates Lean Democratic, 8 are currently held by Republicans. Of the 21 races CNN rates Tossup, 19 are held by Republicans. Democrats need to pick up 23 seats in order to take control of the House in November.

IL-12: Democrats have tried to recruit Brendan Kelly to run before, but he's held off until now. The St. Clair County prosecutor hails from a voter-rich part of the district and outraised GOP Rep. Mike Bost in the final quarter of 2017. Trump won this district by 14 points, but Barack Obama carried it by two points in 2012. This district has a history of voting Democratic, so it should offer an even better opportunity for Democrats than PA-18. Race moves from Lean Republican to Toss-up.

MI-08: This is another Midwest contest where Democrats have cleared the field for a top recruit, former intelligence official Elissa Slotkin. She's challenging Rep. Mike Bishop, who won this district that includes Detroit exurbs and Lansing by 17 points in 2016. Trump carried the district by six points, and Romney won it by just three points in 2012. Slotkin also raised $140,000 more than Bishop the last three months of 2017, though still trails in cash on hand by about $260,000. Race moves from Lean Republican to Toss-Up.

MI-11: Republican Rep. Dave Trott's retirement from this district -- home of Chrysler and many of the American auto giants' workers -- left it vulnerable to a Democratic takeover. Trump carried it by 4 points in 2016, but this district has several characteristics that suggest a strong shift is coming. Among them: It's suburban, and it's dominated by the auto industry, which means Trump's new tariffs on steel and aluminum imports (which make vehicles' components more expensive) likely won't be popular. Democrats still have a crowded primary to sort out, but they'll be watching the Detroit suburbs closely. Race moves from Toss-Up to Lean Democratic.

MN-03: Republican Erik Paulsen won this district comprising the suburbs west of the Twin Cities by 14 points in 2016 -- but Hillary Clinton bested Trump here by nine points. It also went narrowly for Obama in 2012. Democrats are touting Dean Phillips, the former CEO of his family's distillery company and former co-owner of Talenti Gelato. He's keeping close in fundraising, trailing Paulsen by about $90,000 in the fourth quarter of 2017, but has a cash-on-hand deficit of more than $900,000. Race moves from Lean Republican to Toss-Up.

NJ-02: With the retirement of GOP Rep. Frank LoBiondo, this seat is high up on the target list for Democrats. The party has put state Sen. Jeff Van Drew on its Red-to-Blue list. The moderate Democrat, a gun rights supporter, does have a primary against Tanzie Youngblood. There is a crowded field on the GOP side. This district, which includes Atlantic City and some Philadelphia exurbs, went for Obama by eight points and Trump by four. Race moves from Toss-Up to Lean Democratic.

NJ-07: A once-crowded primary field for Democrats has started to narrow, and Tom Malinowski is the beneficiary. The former assistant secretary of state in the Obama administration saw two primary opponents drop out last month and endorse him -- that after he more than doubled GOP Rep. Leonard Lance in fundraising during the final quarter of last year. Hillary Clinton won this north central New Jersey district by a single point in 2016 while Lance won it by 11 points. Race moves from Lean Republican to Toss-Up.

NC-09: This is a tough district for Democrats. But so was Pennsylvania 18. Democrat Dan McCready is a top recruit who has outraised GOP Rep. Robert Pittenger for three consecutive quarters and has $600,000 more in the bank. Pittenger also faces a primary challenge from Mark Harris, who he defeated in the 2016 GOP primary by a single percentage point. The district includes South Charlotte and shares a border with South Carolina -- a similar dynamic to what Democrats were facing in PA-18. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican.

NC-13: Freshman GOP Rep. Ted Budd won this north central North Carolina district by 12 points in 2016 as Trump was carrying it by nine. Democrats are lining up behind Kathy Manning, a philanthropist and former lawyer, who crushed Budd in fundraising in the fourth quarter of 2017 and has roughly $220,000 more cash-on-hand. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican.

PA-17: The dust hasn't settled from Tuesday's special election, but regardless of the result it shows Democratic strength in southwestern Pennsylvania. This newly-drawn district is a much more competitive seat for GOP Rep. Keith Rothfus to defend. Assuming Conor Lamb decides to run in this district that includes suburbs west of Pittsburgh, it will be one of the most closely-watched contests come November. Race moves from Lean Republican to Toss-Up.

VA-07: This district that includes Richmond suburbs has been trending Democratic in recent years. Trump's performance here dipped from Romney's showing four years earlier. Republican Ed Gillespie won it by less than four points in last year's gubernatorial contest. GOP Rep. Dave Brat stunned the political world when he knocked off Eric Cantor in the GOP primary in 2014. Now he's poised for a challenge of his own from one of two Democrats who outraised him at the end of last year -- former CIA officer Abigail Spanberger or Marine Corps veteran Dan Ward. Race moves from Likely Republican to Lean Republican.

WI-01: This is House Speaker Paul Ryan's district, and it's likely to stay that way in November. Ryan can raise as much money as he wants, is universally known in his district and won't make the mistake of sleeping on Democratic challenger Randy Bryce. But Bryce has some things going for him, too. He's branded himself effectively (the mustachioed ironworker and Army veteran's Twitter handle is @IronStache). His longshot bid against Ryan will make him a small-dollar fundraising star. And southeastern Wisconsin is actually friendlier territory to Democrats than southwestern Pennsylvania was. Race moves from Solid Republican to Likely Republican.

In addition to those moves, we are shifting FL-06 and TX-21 from Safe Republican to Likely Republican. In Florida, GOP Rep. Ron DeSantis is leaving his seat to run for governor -- and Democrats believe former ambassador Nancy Soderberg gives them a chance in this open contest. While in Texas, Rep. Lamar Smith's retirement creates an open seat with May runoffs for Republicans and Democrats to determine who will face-off for this district that includes parts of Austin and area north of San Antonio. Smith won the district by 21 points; Trump won it by 10.

Given the current national environment we are also moving several Democratic-held seats to more favorable positions. Two open seats -- NV-03 and NH-01 -- go from Toss-Up to Lean Democratic. Democrats are happy with the candidates running in those districts, and in the case of New Hampshire, no Republican candidate seems to have caught fire.

Two other seats with Democratic incumbents seeking reelection move from Lean Democratic to Likely Democratic: FL-07 and NJ-05. For Republicans, the name of the game in 2018 is defense, not offense, with two open Democratic seats in Minnesota representing the GOP's best pick-up opportunities.

Those are today's moves, but there are a number of other races we're watching closely to see whether they inch in Democrats' direction. In Utah, Ben McAdams (challenging GOP Rep. Mia Love in the 4th District) has run well with Mitt Romney on the ballot before. In central Arkansas' 2nd District, Clarke Tucker was Democrats' dream recruit to take on two-term Rep. French Hill. Two Ohio races -- the 1st District, where Aftab Pureval is challenging Rep. Steve Chabot in what used to be solidly Republican Cincinnati suburbs, and the 12th District, where voters will replace retired Rep. Pat Tiberi in an August special election -- bear watching. In KY-06, we're waiting to see whether Lexington Mayor Jim Gray or veteran Amy McGrath wins the primary. And in KS-02, Democratic challenger Paul Davis is worth keeping an eye on, in part because he's already made clear that, like Lamb, he's opposing Pelosi. Democrats had struggled to recruit a strong challenger to Rep. David Valadao in CA-21, a Central Valley district, businessman TJ Cox — who'd been running in the 10th District against Rep. Jeff Denham — changed his mind and said he'll move from Modesto back home to Fresno and run against Valadao in this district Hillary Clinton won by 15 percentage points.

Correction: This story has been updated to correct a rating change in the text for IL-12 and in the graphic for NJ-02.(CNN) Despite a favorable map, Republican prospects for growing their Senate majority have appeared murky, given the party's struggles to land top-tier recruits to take on Democratic incumbents in several states where Donald Trump won in 2016.

One of those states was North Dakota.

JUST WATCHED Heitkamp talking to CNN in December about a meeting with Donald Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Heitkamp talking to CNN in December about a meeting with Donald Trump 00:50

That is changing with the expected announcement Friday by Rep. Kevin Cramer that he will seek to challenge Democratic Sen. Heidi Heitkamp in the Peace Garden State this fall.

Cramer's entrance into the race comes a month after he ruled out a bid despite encouragement from President Trump and top Republicans.

While Democrats will point to past concerns by Republicans about Cramer's penchant for controversial remarks, the move does give the party a candidate with a higher profile statewide than current contender Tom Campbell, who serves in the state senate.

Read More(CNN) Winning is everything in elections, but expectations can make a tough loss feel like a gut punch or a surprise victory the thing of legend.

Pretty much nobody, including his own staff, thought Donald Trump was going to beat Hillary Clinton in 2016, which made his victory all the more surprising.

We're starting to see perceptions of a new lock in 2018: that Democrats will see a wave and take control of the House of Representatives.

And that could be both good and bad news for them.

There's a good probability that so many people assumed Clinton would win in 2016 that they didn't turn out to vote. In hindsight, they might have. That's conjecture, of course, but it's not a radical idea to say that if Clinton had been seen as less of a lock, she might have generated more excitement.

But maybe because of that shocking loss, and with Trump in the White House, Democrats won't have to worry about setting lower expectations in 2018, according to Steve Israel, a former New York congressman who chaired the committee in charge of electing Democrats from 2011 thru 2015.

He said Democrats have "nuclear energy" right now.

"In environments like this, we used to worry that high expectations would lead to voter complacency," he said. "But 2018 has generated the equivalent of nuclear energy for Democrats. They're not staying home on Election Day, they're rushing to the polls. What Republicans are doing is bracing their donors for the worst, so that anything better than catastrophe can be spun as a victory."

Republicans, it's true, are predicting a wave could upend their majorities.

The House, where every seat is up for election, is much more likely to change hands than the Senate, where Democrats are defending 26 seats and Republicans are defending only eight.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, was using hurricane terminology

"This is going to be a challenging election year," McConnell told members of the Kentucky Today editorial board on Tuesday. "We know the wind is going to be in our face. We don't know whether it's going to be a Category 3, 4 or 5."

There is a very long list of reasons for Democrats to be optimistic. Here's one that CNN Political Director David Chalian rattled off:

Despite all of that, Democrats say they won't be coasting into November.

"Here's the bottom line: There's nothing easy about winning 23 seats under the current gerrymandered maps -- in the face of massive outside Republican spending -- and we're taking nothing for granted," said Tyler Law, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee's spokesman.

There's no doubt both parties will be working hard, but the problem for Democrats could be beyond their control in some ways, especially if the press and the public start to expect a Democratic takeover of the House.

Most Democrats think there's good reason for that expectation, at least right now.

"If the elections were held tomorrow, I think we would take back the house," said Rodell Mollineau, a former top Democratic Senate staffer and former president of the super PAC American Bridge 21st Century.

But he cautioned that political winds can change and pointed to the 2014 midterms, when Democrats felt good early on but Republicans ultimately saw gains in the Senate and House. He pointed out that national security issues, including ISIS and an Ebola outbreak, changed momentum during the campaign.

"There's always danger in complacency," he said, adding, "There are some things that are out of the control of Republicans and Democrats and especially on the House side that will contribute to voters' opinions."

In that vein, Democrats want to make the election about the more sensational aspects of Trump and his administration, his effort to dismantle Obamacare and the details of the unpopular tax law.

But Republicans, led by Trump, will try to make it about immigration and stoke the fears of the same voters who put him in office. The beginnings of that effort apparently came last week as the President turned to provocative rhetoric about the southern border.

Which means 2018 is just getting started.(CNN) Actress and activist Cynthia Nixon made national news on Monday with her announcement that she would run in the Democratic primary this year against New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo .

But, how much danger does Nixon actually pose to Cuomo, who is seeking a third term as the most powerful elected official in the Empire State? To answer that, I reached out to Capital Tonight's Nick Reisman . Our conversation, conducted via email and lightly edited for flow, is below.

Cillizza: Was the Cynthia Nixon candidacy expected -- by Gov. Cuomo or the political class more generally?

Reisman: I think a lot of people were surprised this became real, including Cuomo.

When Albany first heard the rumor of a Nixon candidacy, it was largely seen as being through the prism of Cuomo's problems with education advocates. Nixon has been very close with the Alliance for Quality Education, an organization that has been pushing the state to fulfill the terms of a lawsuit over equitable funding for school districts. Nixon has been to the state Capitol to advocate on this very issue.

Cuomo clearly saw this as a de Blasio-backed effort. The day after it was reported de Blasio-linked campaign consultants Bill Hyers and Rebecca Katz were working with Nixon on a potential primary, Cuomo went on a tear against the mayor . It was very Cuomoian, blasting de Blasio for being all talk and no action in TV and radio interviews that were ostensibly being held about a snowstorm. Cuomo has never faced an opponent like this in his career, so an actual strategy may take a while to emerge.

Cillizza: How much disaffection is there within the Democratic Party in the state for Cuomo? And why didn't someone more prominent -- de Blasio? -- run?

Reisman: Polling has shown Cuomo to hold steady with self-identified liberals and registered Democrats. He is, after all, the governor who successfully moved the chess pieces around, LBJ-style, to achieve the legalization of same-sex marriage.

One thing Cuomo is really good at, especially in his second term, is recalibrating. The 2014 primary he had with Zephyr Teachout was really a catalyst for the last four years in state politics and his agenda. In that primary, liberals were upset that Cuomo warred with public labor unions over pension benefits and teacher evaluations and would not ban hydrofracking.

In term two, Cuomo made peace with the state's major public employees unions and the New York State United Teachers union. He banned fracking soon after his re-election , winning him praise from environmental groups. He won the passage of an increase in the state's minimum wage , which will phase in to $15 in the New York City area in the coming years. The $15 minimum wage policy was actually on the platform of the Green Party candidate, Howie Hawkins, in 2014. The $15 minimum wage went from the Green Party to state law in two years.

But the biggest concern Democrats and liberals have with Cuomo is the state Senate, which is tied up in a major Gordian Knot. The Senate is narrowly controlled by Republicans (and it's really the last lever of power Republicans hold statewide in New York). In 2011, on the day Cuomo first took office as governor, four Senate Democrats announced they were forming their own conference, known as the Independent Democratic Conference, led by Bronx Sen. Jeff Klein. The IDC has acted as something of a coalition-style government with Senate Republicans and has grown to eight members. In the 2013-14 session, the IDC actually joined in what was known as a "majority coalition" with Republicans, sharing power in the chamber. The Republicans regained an outright majority in the Senate in 2014.

Cuomo has been seen by his liberals critics as an enabler of this arrangement: a weak Republican conference with a small advantage that he can play off the Democratic-dominated state Assembly. The IDC has gone to pains to take credit for key victories such as several increases in the minimum wage, including the $15 deal. But liberals remain dissatisfied with this arrangement, arguing that a Republican Senate has blocked reforms such as enacting early voting and strengthening abortion rights, both of which Cuomo has endorsed.

Cuomo has come under increasing pressure since Donald Trump's election to help his party gain power in the Senate. Next month is going to be really important. Last year, the New York Democratic Committee announced a unity deal between the IDC and the mainline Democrats, which was dependent upon the party winning two open seats in the Bronx and Westchester County, the latter of which the GOP hopes to be competitive in. Should both Democrats win, the theory is the party has a numerical majority.

Here's where it gets even more complicated: The Democratic world in New York will then have to convince Sen. Simcha Felder to switch conferences . Felder is a registered Democrat who sits with the Republicans in the Senate. He has also been a major thorn in the side of de Blasio. For what it is worth, Felder has said, vaguely, he will join with whichever side is "best for my constituents."

So, the math would go like this: Democrats win both seats on April 24 . There would then be 32 registered Democrats to be seated in the 63-member Senate (eight IDC members, 23 mainline Democratic members and one Simcha Felder). Should Cuomo successfully claim credit for flipping the state Senate -- in the middle of the legislative session, mind you -- it could go a long way to helping stave off further liberal angst with his tenure.

As for de Blasio not running: Keep in mind being mayor of New York City is no launchpad to the Executive Mansion in Albany. Ed Koch, famously, could not do it against Mario Cuomo. Upstate Democrats would be skeptical of a de Blasio-for-governor campaign as would, quite frankly, a lot of New York City voters. A prominent person from politics running against Cuomo would face instant blow back from the institutions that are supporting the governor's re-election. Nixon is a relative outsider and, as we've seen on the national level, sometimes that doesn't hurt.

Cillizza: Break down this race. Is it Cuomo vs. Nixon? Or will there be other credible challengers? And if it's one-on-one, what does Nixon's ceiling look like?

Reisman: Currently Cuomo does have two other declared contenders in the primary aside from Nixon: Former state Sen. Terry Gipson and Randy Credico, a comedian and activist. Gipson is a one-term former lawmaker from the Poughkeepsie area who lost his re-election in 2014 and then lost an attempted comeback bid in 2016. Credico is certainly a colorful and passionate character who has played a bit role in the Wikileaks saga and has made runs for office before.

Perhaps the best, albeit imperfect, guide here is Zephyr Teachout's primary campaign in 2014. Teachout had little name recognition but harnessed a lot of the proto anti-Cuomo vibes, such as his awkwardness with the Occupy Wall Street movement and his hesitation to tax the rich, along with the anti-fracking movement and public union agita.

Teachout got 34 percent of the vote in the primary. If there's a baseline for Nixon, it's that. A Siena College poll that was taken last week, before Nixon entered the race, put her at 19 percent against Cuomo. I expect that will climb.

A lot of people expect Nixon to draw votes in New York City, given the headaches surrounding mass transit and the subway in particular. Don't be so sure. Teachout got votes in the primary from rural, upstate voters too, what I call Farmers Market Democrats. Think enclaves like Ithaca. Many of them probably voted for Bernie Sanders, are concerned with the environment and income inequality. There's not a ton of these people, but if this is close, they could be important. Meanwhile, Cuomo could still draw votes in New York City, especially from black and Latino supporters. That leaves the suburbs: the Hudson Valley and Long Island. If it's close, expect Cuomo in those areas -- a lot. Also important to note: New York's primaries are closed to people enrolled in the parties.

Cillizza: New York doesn't have term limits on its governors. But history suggests people get sick of them. Is Cuomo pushing the needle on that or no?

Reisman: Great question! We'll know in November.

But seriously, New Yorkers don't get that sick of their governors, necessarily. George Pataki served three terms. Mario Cuomo served three terms. Nelson Rockefeller left to become vice president after being elected four times. Mario Cuomo was caught up in a combination of incumbency fatigue and the 1994 Republican wave that Al D'Amato saw the chances of a little-known state senator named George Pataki being pretty good. There was fatigue with Pataki after three terms and a strong challenger in Eliot Spitzer in 2006 that hastened his retirement.

The fact remains that for governors of New York, as well as mayors of the city, the third term is always a tough one. Ask Michael Bloomberg, Ed Koch or Mario Cuomo. We haven't really gotten into the campaign season just yet with Cuomo, so we don't what his theory of the case is for why he wants to serve another four years. I think he does genuinely love being governor of New York, though. He likes that his father held that job and the prestige he sees with occupying the office.

The big "what if" remains political corruption and whether there will be any fallout from the trial of Cuomo's former close aide, Joe Percoco, who was convicted last week . There are more corruption trials to come this year, including one with developers who received major economic developments from the state in an effort to revive the Buffalo economy and just happened to donate to Cuomo's campaigns.

At the same time, the former legislative leaders in the Senate and Assembly, Dean Skelos and Shelly Silver, are being re-tried on corruption charges later this spring . If Cuomo becomes too closely associated with Albany's sleaze, which he ran against in 2010, then that could present a real problem.

Cillizza: Finish this sentence: "Andrew Cuomo is ___________ worried about Cynthia Nixon." Now, explain.

Reisman: I would say "cautiously" worried.

When he's on his game, Cuomo can be a very skilled politician governing a complicated large state with complicated politics. He sees corners and angles other people don't, can box in his opponents and has a ton of campaign cash on hand. I wouldn't be surprised if he hits $45 million or $50 million [raised] in this race.

There is generally a presumption that Cuomo is in good shape: He's got some well-connected and active labor unions on his side, like 1199 SEIU and the Hotel Trades Council. He's notched liberal victories on the minimum wage and hydrofracking and he's been increasingly blistering when it comes to Trump.

The Capitol press corps in Albany does not actually see him all that often. In recent years, Cuomo has rarely held press conferences in the Capitol. This lack of access to him can be frustrating to reporters, but it also makes sense from a strategy point of view. He prefers calling into radio shows or doing satellite interviews on TV, controlled settings compared to the free-wheeling gaggle or shout-y press conference.

It boils down to this: Cuomo has little room for error in these next six months.Washington (CNN) There was one consistent theme from congressional Republicans in their after-action report on the likely loss of a House seat in a Pennsylvania: It's time for the party to wake up.

"Wake-up call," is how Texas Sen. John Cornyn described it. Steve Stivers, the head of House Republicans' campaign arm, went with: "This is a wake-up call."

Which is a helpful -- and hopeful. Why? Because it's a notion/strategy(?) built on the idea that Republicans have agency in all of this. That not everyone is doomed to the likely fate of state Rep. Rick Saccone -- the guy who may lose the race no GOPer should lose.

See, if we just "wake up" right now, things are going to be fine! All we need to do is raise money! Build organizations! Know the challenge that a political environment tilted away from us poses! This is all going to work out!

Except that, if history is any guide, Republicans may be trapped in an electoral nightmare from which they can't wake -- no matter how hard they try.

Read More(CNN) The 2018 midterm election is in 258 days.

Democrats are very, very ready for it. Republicans? Not so much.

That's according to a new CNN/SSRS national poll, which suggests that Democratic voters are far more enthusiastic about the coming midterms than their GOP counterparts.

A majority of registered Democrats -- 52% -- say they are either "extremely" (30%) or "very" (22%) enthusiastic about "voting for Congress this year."

For Republicans, 17% say they are "extremely" enthusiastic about voting this fall while another 23% say they are "very" enthusiastic.

Read MoreWashington (CNN) On Monday, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court redrew the state's congressional lines in advance of the 2018 election. (The court had previously ruled that the map drawn by Republicans earlier in the decade was driven mainly by partisan consideration and therefore in violation of the state's constitution.)

The new map will fundamentally rejigger the state's politics and, at first glance, will make Democrats much more competitive in a state that has leaned their way for most of the last two decades.

For more perspective on the Pennsylvania map -- and what it means in both Pennsylvania and in the fight for control of the House nationally, I reached to out my friend Jonathan Tamari , the national political reporter for the Philadelphia Inquirer. Our conversation, conducted via email and lightly edited for flow, is below.

Cillizza: How did we get to this point? And is this the final final map for the 2018 election?

Tamari: This is one of those stories that show how sometimes big things in politics take a long time to happen -- and then seem to happen all at once.

In many ways, the fight traces back to the tea party wave of 2010. It gave Pennsylvania Republicans big wins in congressional races, and control of the Pennsylvania statehouse just as it was time to draw up new congressional maps. The GOP promptly took that control and made maps that effectively locked them into those competitive Congressional seats. Even with Barack Obama winning PA in 2012, and Dems winning about 51% of the congressional vote, they made zero gains in Congress -- and held just five of 18 seats.

Cillizza: This map seems to be very friendly for Democrats. Fair?

Tamari: Yes. Democrats argue that this is basically establishing a PA map as it should be: almost evenly divided in a state where the vote typically splits close to 50-50. They'd add that this comes after years of facing an unfair GOP advantage, and that competitive districts are good for everyone, regardless of party.

But when it comes to immediate electoral implications, I think few independent analysts thought it would turn out this well for Democrats -- who face natural geographic disadvantages, regardless of any gerrymandering. As some real smart analysts have said (among them, the Upshot crew at the NYT and Cook Political Report's Dave Wasserman ) there were a number of decisions in these maps that could have reasonably gone either way. In almost every instance, they went in the Democrats' favor.

You could make a fair case for just about all of them individually, and the map overall is inarguably more compact, contiguous and rational than what preceded it. It's not as if the court drew up a tortured Democratic mirror of the old GOP version. But add up all the decisions and this map helps Democrats more than almost anyone expected.

Cillizza: What's the fallout been -- if any -- from the map so far? Do we expect retirements? Incumbents moving districts?

Tamari: People were still trying to get their heads around it even late Monday night. Folks who have been working in politics for a long time were basically reduced to saying "this is crazy."

I think a few key players are going to have to make big decisions that start the domino chain of decisions. Most immediately, Democrats are hoping Conor Lamb can pull off a big upset in a special election in western PA next month -- but even if he does, he might have to move districts by November to survive.

In Philly, one incumbent, Democrat Brendan Boyle, has a very different district, and will have to decide if he stays in his current seat or moves over to neighboring Montgomery County (which he partially represents now, but is cut out of his new district). Depending on where he goes we could see a Democratic free-for-all for his open seat in Philly, or the one in Montgomery. A bunch of people who had lined up to run for an open Philly seat being vacated by Democrat Bob Brady suddenly are staring at two incumbents ahead of them and no opening (unless Boyle moves).

Republican Scott Perry is one incumbent who, out of the blue, faces a much tougher district. Same with the GOP's Keith Rothfus in western PA. But can Democrats find good challengers fast enough to take advantage? These guys weren't even on the radar two days ago.

Cillizza: Take a step back. How big a deal is this new map for Democrats trying to take back the House? For Republicans trying to keep it?

Tamari: Huge.

Under the old map, Democrats had one really good chance to flip a GOP seat and two or three others that were possible, but tough. Now you have to make Democrats the favorite to gain at least three Pennsylvania seats , and maybe more given the political environment this year. If a major wave shapes up, you could even see them going from five seats in Congress to 11.

In another year, they'd be unlikely to fare that well and Republicans would have a good shot at a majority of the seats in good GOP years. But for 2018, you combine this new map with the traditional midterm backlash against the party in power, the current Democratic energy and presidential approval ratings, and suddenly, the state that effectively sealed President Trump's victory could be on the leading edge of Democrats' push to win back the House.

Cillizza: Finish this sentence: "In 2019, at the start of the new Congress, the partisan breakdown of the Pennsylvania delegation will be _________." Now, explain.

Tamari: "Nine-nine."

Democrats hold the two seats in Philly and one centered on Pittsburgh (duh). They gain three seats in the Philly suburbs (based in Chester, Delaware and Montgomery counties). They gain a Lehigh Valley seat (where Republican Charlie Dent is retiring) and hold Matt Cartwright's competitive seat in northeast PA. And given the wind at their backs they pick up one more of the three real competitive races left on the map.

Why not more? I think it's late for Democrats to go out and find quality candidates to take on those incumbents. With this caveat: I've covered both politics and sports, and the one constant is that my predictions are terrible in both.Democrats are defending more than two dozen seats -- including 10 in states where President Donald Trump won in 2016 -- while Republicans have just 8 seats up for re-election. Those numbers led some ambitious Republicans to openly speculate about the possibility of controlling 60 seats -- a filibuster-proof majority-- after the 2018 election

And yet, there are signs in just the last 48 hours that Senate GOP strategists are growing increasingly nervous about their chances of holding the majority.

Consider:

1. In North Dakota, Republicans are desperately trying to change Rep. Kevin Cramer's mind about challenging Sen. Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat, in November, according to the Washington Examiner's David Drucker . Kramer decided against the race in January but Republicans have grown increasingly concerned about the remaining candidates in the race -- state Sen. Tom Campbell in particular -- and their ability to beat Heitkamp.

2. Some Republicans are pressuring Sen. Bob Corker to re-consider his decision to retire at the end of the 115th Congress -- as first reported by CNN . Corker has been silent about the speculation since the news broke over the weekend, meaning that he almost certainly is thinking twice about his previous decision. (If Corker wasn't reconsidering, he could shut down all speculation with a simple "No" to any of the scads of reporters asking him if he is reconsidering.)

The concern among Washington Republicans is that Rep. Marsha Blackburn, the clear favorite for the Republican nomination, is simply too conservative to beat the popular former Democratic Gov. Phil Bredesen in the fall. Blackburn has said she is staying in the Senate race no matter what -- and there are some within the GOP who believe she would have the upper hand against Corker in a GOP primary.

Those individual race anxieties are reflective of a broader concern among Senate Republicans that, despite their overwhelming numbers advantage, the combined weight of historical losses for the president's party in midterms election and President Trump's continued unpopularity nationally could endanger their majority come November. That concern has only deepened since the Doug Jones beat Roy Moore late last year to become the first Democrat to represent Alabama in the Senate in decades.

Recruiting has been far more difficult than Republicans would have hoped. In addition to the saga in North Dakota, a top tier challenger has yet to emerge against Sen. Jon Tester in Montana, a state Trump won by double digits in 2016. In Ohio, Josh Mandel, the Republican frontrunner, suddenly dropped his candidacy, forcing Rep. Jim Renacci to switch from the governor's race to the Senate contest. In Florida, every one is waiting on a go/no-go decision from Gov. Rick Scott; if he doesn't run, Republicans will be a major underdog against Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson.

In several other potential Republican takeovers, the party has struggled to clear the primary field. In Indiana and West Virginia, where Democratic Sens. Joe Donnelly and Joe Manchin are imperiled, Republicans are headed toward what look like costly and expensive primary fights.

Meanwhile, Republican chances in Nevada (where GOP Sen. Dean Heller is seeking reelection) and Arizona (where GOP Sen. Jeff Flake is not) remain very much up in the air, with potential ideological primaries forming in both.

None of this is to say Republicans will lose their majority come fall. The numbers -- still -- favor them. Republicans have, at most, three truly endangered seats right now (Arizona, Nevada and Tennessee). Democrats are still defending 10 seats where Trump won in 2016 including five -- Indiana, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota and West Virginia -- where the President won by double digits.

But, the attempts to convince Kramer to change his mind coupled with efforts to coax Corker out of retirement are the latest evidence that an election cycle that looked like one of the best for Republicans in modern memory suddenly appears to be a bit more of a nail-biter.(CNN) When Nancy Pelosi concluded her eight-hour immigration speech on Wednesday night, she was greeted with cheers by her Democratic colleagues. Republicans were cheering too.

Why? Because the GOP's top strategists -- up to and including President Donald Trump -- are absolutely convinced that the higher Pelosi's profile is nationally, the better Republican chances of minimizing their losses in the midterm election.

In the contested special election to replace disgraced former Rep. Tim Murphy, conservative groups have been airing ads seeking to link Pelosi to Democratic nominee Conor Lamb.

"Nancy Pelosi and Conor Lamb are still opposing your tax cut," says the narrator in one ad . "Lamb called it a complete betrayal. And Pelosi said: This is Armageddon."

In the Georgia special election won by Republican Rep. Karen Handel last year, Republicans, similarly, worked to turn the race into a referendum not on the Democratic nominee, but Pelosi.

"Every morning I wake up and I take a moment to be thankful that the Republican Party still has Nancy Pelosi because Nancy Pelosi is absolutely toxic," Corry Bliss, who runs a Republican super PAC, told the Washington Times back in June 2017

If this strategy rings a bell, it's because Republicans have been pursuing it consistently since the 2010 election. In the runup to that midterm, Republicans relentlessly pounded on Pelosi (and newly elected President Barack Obama) as symbols of liberalism run amok.

Pelosi's background -- a wealthy liberal; representing a San Francisco area seat -- made her the ideal symbol of everything lots and lots of rank-and-file Republicans hate about Washington (and Democrats).

In competitive district after competitive district in the 2010 and 2014 elections, Republicans would run some version of this ad: "(Fill in the blank candidate) may say he's not a Washington liberal. But the first vote' he'll cast in Washington is for Nancy Pelosi and her liberal San Francisco values. Those aren't our values."

In the 2010 election alone, according to The Washington Post's Paul Kane , Republicans spent more than $50 million in negative ads featuring Pelosi. That number has likely tripled over the last seven years.

Pelosi's approval numbers are, perhaps not surprisingly, quite low. Less than 29% of people have a favorable view of Pelosi, according to HuffPost's Pollster . That matches the most recent approval rating for Pelosi in polling by CNN -- 29% favorable and 50% unfavorable in September of 2017. She had 37% approval in 2013.

Of late, Trump and his White House have picked up on the anti-Pelosi drumbeat.

"Nancy Pelosi -- what she's doing to this country," said Trump at a tax speech in Cincinnati earlier this week . "And she's gone so far left, and (Chuck) Schumer has gone so far left. Oh, I look forward to running against them."

Speaking to congressional Republicans at their retreat in West Virginia earlier this month, Trump, as he has done several times recently, cited Pelosi's comment that companies were handing out "crumbs" to their workers in the wake of the passage of the tax cut law. (Read this for the full context of the "crumbs" line .)

"She called it crumbs when people are getting $2,000 and $3,000 dollars and $1,000 -- that's not crumbs," Trump said. "It's a lot of money."

White House press secretary Sarah Sanders has picked up on the anti-Pelosi drumbeat -- zeroing in on the House Minority Leader's less-than-enthusiastic facial expression when Trump called for bipartisanship during his State of the Union address.

"I think Nancy Pelosi looks like that all the time," Sanders said on CNN's "New Day ." "I think she should smile a lot more often, I think the country would be better for it."

At issue for Trump and Republicans is the fact that Pelosi isn't in charge anymore. Republicans are. And the most famous/infamous politician in the country is the Republican currently residing in the White House. Can they make Pelosi the centerpiece of the 2018 campaign even as Democrats are trying to do the same with Trump?

That's an impossible question to answer right now. But what we do know is that Republicans are sure as hell going to try.(CNN) The 2018 midterm elections aren't for another 271 days. But, the shape of the playing field on which the battle for control of the House will be fought is beginning to form -- and it looks very, very problematic for Republicans.

On Thursday, the Cook Political Report, a leading non-partisan handicapping site, moved 21 House districts in favor of Democrats ; Cook House editor David Wasserman suggests that still might underestimate Democrats' ceiling in terms of seat gains this fall.

"Most new district-by-district fundraising and polling numbers are downright terrible for Republicans, even in seats previously thought to be safe," writes Wasserman

Those moves jibe with a series of changes CNN made to its own House ratings on Thursday -- with a handful of Democratic incumbents moving off the competitive list entirely and several Republican incumbents -- including New York's Claudia Tenney in more trouble.

There are now 66 GOP-held seats on CNN's list of competitive races as compared to just 15 for Democrats. Cook rates 67 Republican seats as competitive as compared to just 25 for Democrats.

Those numbers have to be scary for Republicans hoping to cling to their 24-seat majority. Why? Because what we've seen of late -- fueled by remarkably successful fundraising by dozens of Democratic candidates -- is an expansion of the ground where this election will be fought. And that expansion is entirely in Republican territory.

What that means in practical terms is that Democrats have more margin for error as they try to net two dozen seats. If a race they expected to be competitive suddenly collapses, it doesn't doom their chances as they now have 2, 3 or even 4 other seats to replace it.

The other potential impact of the widening of the playing field in Democrats' favor is that if there is a massive wave that sweeps the country -- and signs suggest something is building -- then the party could score massive gains as any even quasi-marginal seat falls to them.

(That, by the by, is what happened for Republicans in 2010 when they netted 63 seats including in some districts that not even the most optimistic Republican operative thought they had a chance to win.)

The point here is this: The election may feel like it is a long way away. But, the map on which Democrats and Republicans will fight is evolving in important ways as I type. And that evolution is all in favor of Democrats.Those labels describe the three groups of seats in the House of Representatives that will likely determine control of the chamber in November's midterm election.

Virtually all analysts in both parties agree that the epicenter of vulnerability for the House Republican majority is in what could be called red pockets: These are the predominantly white-collar suburban seats the GOP still holds in big metropolitan areas that are otherwise solidly Democratic. Those include places such as Orange County, California; New Jersey; Miami; and suburbs outside of New York City, Chicago, Denver, Philadelphia and Minneapolis.

But even if Democrats make big gains in those districts, there aren't quite enough of them to provide the party with the net gain of 24 seats it needs to recapture the House. That means House Democrats would also need to make inroads into the two other large groups of vulnerable GOP seats.

One is what I call Romneyland: white-collar suburban seats in purple and even red states where Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, almost universally performed better than Donald Trump did in 2016.

The third are the "blue-collar blues": mostly blue-collar, non-urban seats in blue states, where Trump almost without exception improved on Romney's performance.

More distantly, the Democrats are also eyeing a few Republican-held blue-collar seats in purple and Republican-leaning states. But control of the House will likely turn on how the battle between the parties turns in the red pockets, Romneyland and the blue-collar blues.

The red pockets will likely be the most reliable source of gains for Democrats because they compound two sources of Republican vulnerability: They are white-collar districts in areas with large numbers of Democrats, who appear motivated to turn out at higher-than-usual levels next fall.

The big question is how far Democrats can reach into places where only one of those advantages is present: white-collar seats in traditionally Republican-leaning areas, or seats in Democratic states that are more rural and blue-collar.

JUST WATCHED Intel chiefs: Russia targeting 2018 elections Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Intel chiefs: Russia targeting 2018 elections 02:14

This battlefield reflects the long-term trends that have seen Democrats demonstrate increasing strength up and down the ballot in diverse, heavily college-educated, major metropolitan areas -- even in Republican-leaning states. In parallel, Republicans have established dominant control over preponderantly white non-metro and blue-collar areas, even in otherwise Democratic-leaning states.

All of these trends have accelerated under Trump. Amid improving attitudes toward the Republican tax bill, several recent polls have shown a small but measurable uptick in President Trump's job approval rating and a narrowing into the mid-single digits of the previously double-digit advantage Democrats have held in the "generic" ballot test of preferences for 2018.

But even with those shifts, polls still consistently find a deeply polarized electorate. Trump and the GOP retain solid support among white men without college degrees, if slightly less than they attracted in 2016. But they are facing intense resistance from younger and non-white voters -- especially African-Americans -- and much lower numbers than usual among college-educated whites, especially, but not exclusively, women.

White women without a college education, whose support was critical to Trump's 2016 victory, loom as a wild card: Polls find they have cooled on him, but Democrats still face many obstacles with them.

These diverging demographic attitudes shape the geography of the 2018 battlefield.

Red pockets

The clearest opportunity for Democrats is the relatively few remaining Republican-held districts in blue metro areas with large populations of college-educated whites, and in many cases substantial minority and youth populations as well. These are places crowded with voters who tilt toward liberal positions on social issues and recoil from Trump's volatile persona, particularly the way he talks about race.

The renewed visibility of gun control issues after the horrific Parkland, Florida, massacre could provide Democrats another lever in these districts, since the Republicans in them have almost universally voted with the National Rifle Association to loosen gun regulations in recent years.

These "red pockets" include the four seats Republicans control in Orange County -- the districts held by Mimi Walters and Dana Rohrabacher and the open seats that will be vacated by Darrell Issa and Ed Royce -- as well as their sole remaining seat in Los Angeles County, held by Steve Knight.

Others that fit this description include the seats in the western Chicago suburbs held by Republican Peter Roskam and in the eastern Denver suburbs held by Mike Coffman; the three suburban Philadelphia seats held by Ryan Costello, Mike Fitzpatrick and Pat Meehan (who has announced he will not seek re-election amid a sex scandal); the northern Virginia seat held by Barbara Comstock; two open seats in New Jersey as well as the one defended by Rep. Leonard Lance; Lee Zeldin's seat in eastern Long Island; the suburban Minneapolis seats now held by Jason Lewis and Erik Paulsen; the Seattle-area seat that Dave Reichert is leaving; as well as the Miami-area seat being vacated by Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and the nearby seat held by Rep. Carlos Curbelo.

JUST WATCHED Missouri Democrat wins district won by Trump Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Missouri Democrat wins district won by Trump 01:42

Though Romney carried many of these seats -- often narrowly -- in 2012, Hillary Clinton won all of those listed above in 2016 except for the seats held by Lewis and Fitzpatrick, which Trump won by eyelash margins, and Zeldin's, which Trump won more comfortably. These resemble the places where Democrats showed the most dramatic gains in 2017, for instance in their sweep of legislative seats and the huge margins they generated in the governor's race in northern Virginia.

Compounding the GOP's vulnerability, the new congressional map the Pennsylvania Supreme Court issued Monday, after earlier ruling that the current district lines represented an impermissible gerrymander, strengthened the Democrats' hand in all three suburban Philadelphia seats.

For Republicans, the key in these booming districts will be whether the good economy helps them recapture voters recoiling from Trump's personal behavior. One complication is these blue-state upper-middle-class suburbs are among the most likely losers from the GOP tax plan, which limits the deductibility of mortgage interest and state and local taxes. Democrats are highly unlikely to win back the House without maximizing their gains in the red pockets.

Romneyland

The next bucket of seats is demographically similar to the red pockets but politically distinct because they are in metro areas that lean much more reliably toward the GOP.

I call this group of seats Romneyland because they are filled with voters who resemble Romney demographically and ideologically: professionals and corporate middle managers who want a president who will shrink government and even pursue a center-right social agenda, but also exude professionalism and decorum.

Romney won virtually every seat in this category in 2012. In 2016, Trump lost ground relative to Romney in almost all of them, though the residual Republican strength was great enough that he still carried many, albeit often narrowly.

The districts in this bucket include the Omaha-area seat held by Don Bacon; the seats in suburban Houston and outside Dallas held by John Culberson and Pete Sessions, respectively; the two suburban Atlanta seats held by Karen Handel and Rob Woodall; David Young's seat outside Des Moines; the Tucson-area seat Martha McSally is vacating to run for the Senate from Arizona; the Lexington, Kentucky-area seat held by Andy Barr; the seats outside Detroit that Dave Trott is vacating and Mike Bishop is defending; and Kevin Yoder's seat in suburban Kansas City, Kansas.

These seats are not immune from the forces threatening the Republicans in the red pockets: Handel, for instance, only narrowly survived last June's special election in Georgia, though her predecessor Tom Price had carried over 60% of the vote there as recently as 2016.

But as Handel's slim victory over Democrat Jon Ossoff showed, Republicans have more of a cushion in these places than in the red pockets. That's partly because more of the white-collar whites in them are social conservatives than their counterparts in the Democratic-leaning metro areas.

Blue-collar blues

The third key test for Democrats is the districts I call "blue-collar blues." These are the blue-collar, exurban, small town and rural seats in states that generally lean Democratic.

These include Republican seats held by John Faso, John Katko and Claudia Tenney in upstate New York; Mike Bost, Rodney Davis and Randy Hultgren in downstate Illinois; the northeast Iowa seat of Rod Blum; Bruce Poliquin's northern Maine district; and the Central Valley, California, seats of Jeff Denham and David Valadao.

JUST WATCHED Dems flip deep-red Missouri state House seat Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Dems flip deep-red Missouri state House seat 01:53

These seats present an especially revealing test for Democrats. Former President Barack Obama carried almost all of them at least once and many of them have elected Democratic House members in the recent past. But House Democrats were routed in these places in the 2010 and 2014 midterm elections under Obama, and almost all of these districts turned further toward Trump in 2016.

The 2017 results in Virginia and Alabama showed Democrats almost completely failing to crack the GOP's hold on blue-collar and rural voters. But some Democrats argue that terrain is much tougher for the party in the South than in the Northeastern and Midwestern states where these competitive House seats are concentrated.

Democrats see an opening in polling, such as the 2017 average of Gallup's daily approval ratings for Trump, that shows a significant erosion in his support across the Rust Belt among working-class white women, even as he remains very strong among blue-collar white men. Converting that female disillusionment with Trump into votes for Democratic congressional candidates is likely the key to seriously contesting the "blue-collar blue" seats.

One early test will be March's special election in the heavily blue-collar southwestern Pennsylvania district that Republican Rep. Tim Murphy has vacated: Democrat Conor Lamb, a former Marine, is running competitively against Republican state Rep. Rick Saccone in a district Trump carried by nearly 20 percentage points.

Beyond the top-tier targets in the red pockets, there's a spirited behind-the-scenes debate among Democratic strategists about which of the remaining two buckets of seats represents the party's best opportunity in 2018.

Some focus most on winning back working-class voters in blue states, who have a recent history of voting for the party but are more favorable to Trump. Others see more opportunity to convert white-collar suburbanites in red states, who have a longer history of voting Republican but are also more disaffected from the President.

To recapture the House, Democrats will likely need to do a considerable amount of both.

CORRECTION: This story has been updated to note that President Donald Trump won the New York congressional district of Republican Rep. Lee Zeldin, in eastern Long Island.(CNN) Congressional Republicans spent last weekend huddling with President Trump at Camp David to frame their legislative agenda in 2018. But they have already placed the bets most likely to determine their fate in November's midterm election, as a series of dramatic events late last week demonstrated.

Two of their biggest decisions over the past year already loom over the upcoming election.

The first has been to align more closely with Trump even as questions have mounted about both his basic fitness for the presidency and the potential legal exposure that he and his inner circle might face in the investigation of special counsel Robert Mueller. The second has been to pursue a policy agenda, on issues from taxes to health care to the environment, aimed almost entirely at the preferences of their party's conservative base, with strikingly few concessions to any voices or interests beyond their core coalition.

Before November, the GOP might modulate each of these choices. But Republicans have engraved the fundamental outline of each direction so deeply over the past year that they are unlikely to be significantly altered.

The decisions to increasingly lock arms with Trump and to pursue such a partisan agenda reflect the same political calculation. On each front, Republicans are placing the highest priority on maximizing unity and enthusiasm among their base voters -- even at the price of infuriating and energizing Democrats, and antagonizing more swing voters -- especially suburban college-educated whites. For voters anywhere on the continuum from ambivalent to alarmed about Trump, congressional Republicans are now sending a clear signal that they are far more inclined to empower than to constrain him.

"During the campaign, they were making a bet -- and it's clear that it's a misplaced bet -- that once Trump became president they could control him and contain him and he would somehow rise above what he was during the campaign," said Pete Wehner, the director of strategic initiatives in the George W. Bush White House. "And it's been the opposite. Once they made that deal with the figurative devil, they were stuck. They are on the train and they don't think they can get off."

JUST WATCHED Trump's 2017 victories and missteps Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump's 2017 victories and missteps 09:24

A succession of rapid-fire events late last week encapsulated each of the GOP's two key wagers.

Last Thursday morning came widespread excerpts from the scabrous new book by Michael Wolff, "Fire and Fury: Inside the White House," that alleged virtually all of the administration's officials privately mock Trump's capacity and despair over his impulsiveness and refusal to process almost any information they present him. Both Trump and the White House have dismissed the claims. But the charges -- deepened when Wolff's full book was released Friday and he appeared in his first television interviews -- underscored the President's greatest political vulnerability: the conclusion among many voters that he is not equipped -- by judgment, temperament, values or experience -- to meet the demands of his office.

A few hours after Wolff's first revelations came another body blow: the report last Thursday night by The New York Times that Trump, through his White House counsel Donald McGahn, had pressured Attorney General Jeff Sessions not to recuse himself in the Russia probe. That reporting underscored the president's potential legal vulnerability to charges of obstruction of justice in Mueller's probe. So did a succession of spectacular charges in Wolff's book, including a report that Trump personally directed the misleading statement about the meeting of his son Donald Trump Jr. and other top advisers with Russians offering "dirt" on Hillary Clinton in June 2016.

CNN has not independently verified all of the details in Wolff's book.

Any of these revelations might have been expected to provoke alarms from congressional Republicans. But no leading Republican raised an eyebrow about the accusations in Wolff's book. And bookended around the reports of White House pressure on Sessions, House and Senate Republicans each pushed to intensify investigations not against Trump but rather the authors of the "dossier" that initially raised charges of Russian meddling and connections with his campaign.

On Wednesday, House Speaker Paul Ryan sided with House Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes, a fierce Trump defender, in demanding new documents from the Justice Department outlining how it handled the dossier. And on Friday, Republican Sens. Chuck Grassley and Lindsey Graham further raised the stakes by asking the Justice Department to open a criminal investigation against Christopher Steele, the former British spy who authored the dossier.

This push to shift the investigative focus from Trump to his critics followed the broader direction among congressional Republicans, who are embracing the President more unreservedly, and defending him more reflexively, than they did when he took office.

"It seems to me a pretty bottomless well," said Wehner, now a senior fellow at the conservative Ethics and Public Policy Center, and a frequent Trump critic. "If there is some line Trump can cross that can cause them to stand up to him, we haven't seen it."

Sandwiched between the release of Wolff's excerpts and the McGahn reporting, the Trump administration issued a major policy announcement that helps explain that evolution. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke announced that the administration intends to open virtually all of the country's coastal waters to offshore drilling by oil companies. The plan proposed 47 lease sales over the next five years covering some 1.5 billion acres of offshore waters. In each case that was more than even President Ronald Reagan and his controversial interior secretary, James Watt, proposed in 1982 (41 lease sales and about 1 billion acres), before a bipartisan coalition in Congress forced them to retrench their plans in a landmark political battle of that era.

JUST WATCHED Trump plans to roll back offshore drilling ban Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Trump plans to roll back offshore drilling ban 00:41

The offshore oil announcement fit the clear policy pattern of Trump's first year: It granted virtually every wish of a key component in the GOP coalition -- in this case the oil industry -- with virtually no concession to any interests outside that coalition, from environmentalists to the mostly Democratic governors of coastal states. The same uncompromising pattern has been evident in Trump's efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act; the administration's moves to rescind an array of Obama-era environmental and consumer safety regulations; Trump's succession of highly ideological federal judicial nominations; and the recently passed tax bill, which not only directed the vast majority of its benefits to the highest earners but also punished Democratic-leaning states by limiting the deductibility of state and local taxes. (For that reason, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo last week called the tax plan "economic civil war.")

On elements of his America First nationalism -- particularly his skepticism about trade, legal immigration and foreign alliances -- Trump may eventually spark more resistance from mainstream Republicans and their allied business interests. But so far his willingness to advance so many long-standing conservative causes has clearly encouraged more Republicans initially skeptical about his fitness to lash themselves more tightly to his turbulent presidency.

"You would have to say that the tax cut/corporate wing of the party has gotten what it signed up for and the social conservatives have certainly gotten what they signed up for," says William Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and former deputy domestic policy adviser to President Bill Clinton. "And the portion of the agenda that is being pursued through administrative action, rather than legislation, is very much in line with what a more traditional Republican conservative would have done. ... The coalition as it existed before Trump came on the scene is getting paid off big time."

Given the policy rewards, both Wehner and Galston are dubious that almost any provocation from Trump could cause either congressional Republicans or the broader conservative movement to establish more independence from him, unless voters send a clear message of discontent in 2018.

This approach increases the odds that the core Republican coalition will remain united heading into 2018 but magnifies the risk of alienating voters beyond it. Polls have shown that cornerstones of the Trump agenda -- led by the ACA repeal and the tax bill -- face enormous resistance from Democrats and independents. It was revealing that neither the ACA repeal effort, nor, even more remarkably, the tax cut bill, could draw support from a single Democrat in either chamber -- even though 10 Senate Democrats are seeking re-election in states Trump carried in 2016.

Even more important, surveys have consistently found that Trump's performance in office has convinced a solid majority of Americans that he lacks the temperament , skills and even stability they expect in a president. By choosing not to provide any meaningful check or oversight on Trump, congressional Republicans risk convincing those dubious voters that the only way to constrain the president is through a Democratic-led Congress. Indeed, in a December national Quinnipiac Poll 56% of Americans said they believed Trump is not qualified to serve as president -- and fully 83% of those critics said they intended to vote Democratic for Congress.

"What's happened now is a strong majority of the country has decided that they deeply oppose Donald Trump, and it's not based primarily on policy," notes Wehner. "It's based primarily on their judgment that he's not fit to be president. The Republican Party is in a position of standing there and making the opposite argument -- and there's going to be a price for that."(CNN) As the 2018 election year begins, one question above all is likely to shape its outcome: Will Americans vote to constrain President Donald Trump by electing a Democrat-led Congress that will challenge and resist him, or to empower the Republicans who are increasingly working in harness with him?

Voters have increasingly viewed House and Senate elections less as a choice between individual candidates than a referendum on which party they want to control Congress -- a choice grounded in their assessments of the President. All evidence from the special elections in 2017 suggests that pattern will continue to drive voters' decisions this year.

As more voters have treated congressional elections in effect as parliamentary choices, it's grown difficult for either side to maintain the unified control of the House, the Senate and the White House that Republicans enjoy now. The last three times one party went into a midterm election holding unified control, in fact, voters have revoked it -- providing the opposition party control of one or both congressional chambers. That was the fate of Democrats under Barack Obama in 2010, Republicans under George W. Bush in 2006 and Democrats under Bill Clinton in 1994.

The ominous precedent for Republicans is that Trump's standing with the public now is weaker than each of those predecessors' was when their party lost unified control during midterm elections. (Trump's recent tweets suggesting his approval rating is as strong as Obama's are not borne out by the facts.) Depending on the survey, the share of Americans expressing approval of Trump's performance generally runs from about 35% to 40%, while the share disapproving runs from around 55% to 60%. That means he faces a "disapproval gap" of around 15 to 20 points in most surveys.

That puts Trump at the higher end of the deficits that confronted the last three presidents who lost unified control of government. Polling by the nonpartisan Pew Research Center put Obama's net approval rating at about even in October 2010, Clinton's at minus-six points in October 1994 and Bush, the closest parallel to Trump, at minus-16 in October 2006. In the elections a few weeks later, each of those president's parties suffered sweeping losses.

Attitudes toward the sitting president seeded each of these whirlwinds. In 1994, according to the Election Day exit polls, 83% of the voters who disapproved of Clinton voted Republican in House elections. In 2006, 82% of those who disapproved of Bush voted Democratic. In 2010, 84% of Obama disapprovers voted Republican.

Though Senate candidates have more opportunity than House candidates to create an independent identity (both because they receive more media coverage and spend more money on advertising), these currents have largely driven their fates as well. In 2006, Republican Senate candidates won six of the 10 races in states with exit polls where Bush's approval rating stood at 46% or higher. But Democrats won 19 of the 20 Senate races in states where Bush's approval rating reached only to 45% or less.

JUST WATCHED Santorum on Trump: He's not a complex man Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Santorum on Trump: He's not a complex man 10:02

Likewise in 2010, Democrats won nine of the 10 Senate races in states with exit polls where Obama's approval rating stood at 48% or more. But Republicans won 13 of the 15 Senate contests in states where Obama's approval tapped out at 47% or less.

These trends aren't absolute. In both parties, some candidates always succeed in hostile territory either because of their own skills or because the other side chooses weak opponents. Democratic Sens. Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Joe Donnelly of Indiana, for instance, won in 2012 even as their states voted against Obama because Republicans nominated deeply flawed opponents. Some House Republicans, such as Colorado's Mike Coffman or Florida's Carlos Curbelo, have shown the capacity to win districts that have voted for Democrats in two or even all three of the presidential elections since 2008. The victory of Democrat Doug Jones over Roy Moore in Alabama's US Senate race in December testified again to the limits of voters' willingness to place the party over the individual.

And yet it is far from certain that despite all of Moore's vulnerabilities, Jones could have won if Trump's position had not eroded since the previous November, even in Alabama. Trump carried over 62% of the vote in Alabama in 2016, but in last month's exit poll there, just 48% of voters said they approved of his performance, while an equal 48% disapproved. Moore held a solid 89% of those who approved of Trump but Jones carried an even larger 93% of those who disapproved.

There's no guarantee that Democrats in 2018 will routinely carry a higher percentage of voters who disapprove of Trump than Republicans do among his approvers, as Jones did. (That didn't happen in the Virginia governor's race, for instance.) The more important point is that the big special elections of 2017 sustained the past two decades' pattern of a very close relationship between voters' attitudes about the president and their choices in other elections.

Democrats still face significant structural hurdles in the 2018 election: the tendency of minority and especially younger voters to turn out in lower numbers during nonpresidential years, gerrymandered House districts in several states that fortify Republican defenses and a Senate map that forces them to defend more than twice as many seats as the GOP this year. But the backlash against Trump personally --and the majority disapproval of both the GOP's tax plan and its attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act -- may be creating a wave that could crest above even those defenses.

Earlier in Trump's presidency, some Republican strategists had speculated that he was such a unique brand that voters unhappy with him were less likely to take that out on his party's candidates than they were for earlier presidents. But in the Virginia governor's race, 87% of voters who disapproved of Trump voted for Democrat Ralph Northam, and in New Jersey 82% backed Democrat Phil Murphy. And in both states, as in Alabama, Trump's approval rating among voters fell below his share of the vote in November 2016.

That's the same situation Republicans are facing in national polls measuring attitudes toward 2018. Trump's national job approval rating generally runs 6 to 10 percentage points below his 46 percent share of the vote in 2016. And when voters are asked which party they intend to support in next November's congressional elections, the results largely track their attitudes toward Trump.

In last month's CNN poll, 84% of Trump approvers said they intended to vote Republican for Congress, while 83% of Trump disapprovers said they intended to vote Democratic. The latest NBC/Wall Street Journal poll produced virtually identical results: 87% of Trump approvers say they will back Republicans, while 85% of Trump disapprovers say they will support Democrats. That's obviously a dangerous dynamic for Republicans when the share of voters who disapprove of Trump is so much larger than the share that approves.

This pattern presents a clear challenge for Democrats on one front: They are defending 10 Senate seats next fall in states that Trump carried in 2016. That includes several states -- West Virginia, North Dakota, Indiana, Missouri and Montana -- that Trump won by resounding margins. McCaskill in Missouri and Donnelly in Indiana top almost all handicappers' lists of the most vulnerable Senate Democrats.

But in recent elections, very few Senate incumbents from the party out of the White House have been defeated. And even in these states, where Trump is stronger than he is nationally, Democrats believe that his opponents are more energized than his supporters. That was the pattern in Virginia and Alabama, where the Republican candidates maintained preponderant advantages among Trump's best groups -- rural, evangelical and blue-collar whites -- but could not inspire them to match the surging turnout of the younger, minority and college-educated white voters hostile to him.

JUST WATCHED Sanders: GOP should worry very much about 2018 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Sanders: GOP should worry very much about 2018 01:39

Veteran Democratic pollster Geoff Garin, who advised Northam in Virginia, acknowledges that Democrats in Trump-leaning states are unlikely to confront him as forcefully as those in blue areas or swing districts. But, Garin says, given the anxieties Trump has stirred during his first year, "One thing that is true in all 50 states is Democrats don't need to be afraid of Donald Trump. And that goes for the reddest of red states where Democrats are defending Senate seats. It is safe to say in every part of the country voters want to elect people who will be independent of Trump and who will stand up to him when necessary."

If Republicans have a trump card in this ominous scenario it's the possibility that growing optimism about the economy will lift the president's approval rating -- and with it the GOP's chances this fall. In a recent blog post, Kyle Clark of the Republican polling firm Public Opinion Strategies wrote, "Whether economic confidence and Trump's approval rating will continue to improve -- and whether we can expect the generic Republican vote to be the beneficiary of this increased optimism -- is a question on which congressional Republicans' fortunes could hinge."

So far, though, Trump is underperforming a typical Republican president among a group that generally is already doing well economically: college-educated white voters, who have recoiled from him on personal and cultural grounds. Trump's approval rating among college-educated whites, in fact, is now nearly as low as Obama's was among the non-college whites who fueled the GOP's 2010 landslide.

That white-collar disaffection with Trump -- along with the possibility of greater than usual midterm turnout among minority and young voters also hostile to him -- looms as the greatest threat to Republicans in November. Candidates will raise many issues next fall, but one question is likely to overshadow them all: whether Trump governs with a largely free hand through 2020 -- or sees his presidency cut in half by Democratic majorities in one or both congressional chambers.(CNN) With Doug Jones' upset victory in last week's Alabama US Senate race, Democrats are solidifying a new model for rebuilding their tattered competitiveness in the South.

Jones benefited from the unique vulnerabilities of his opponent, Republican Roy Moore, who was a deeply polarizing figure even before he was besieged by allegations that he had pursued relationships with teenage girls, some of them underage, while in his 30s.

But the coalition that Jones mobilized closely resembled the voter alignments that have powered other recent Democratic victories in governors' races in Virginia, North Carolina and Louisiana. Above all, Jones demonstrated that Democrats could simultaneously inspire passionate turnout from their base supporters, led by African-Americans, and make inroads with centrist white-collar white voters -- each of which, for different reasons, is recoiling from Donald Trump's tumultuous presidency. That combination allowed Jones to overcome Moore's lopsided margins among blue-collar, evangelical, older and rural whites -- the four building blocks of the Trump coalition.

Keeping momentum and agreement among those groups won't be easy, but Democrats see it as a possible pathway to majorities in the 2018 midterm elections.

"It was definitely the most complicated, toughest thing I've ever been through, on the edge of your seat," said Joe Trippi, a longtime Democratic strategist who directed Jones' campaign. "[But] Trump has created this middle ground where enough moderate and conservative Republicans and Democrats really want leadership about coming together and getting something done. ... I think that is the winning message of 2018."

Jones' victory was centered on minorities, millennial voters and college-educated suburban whites, especially women. That's exactly the formula Democrats now depend on in most states. But even with strong African-American support, Southern Democrats until recently come up short, largely because they haven't attracted nearly as many college-educated whites as their party does elsewhere.

JUST WATCHED Doug Jones: I may vote with GOP on some issues Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Doug Jones: I may vote with GOP on some issues 01:25

Now, with Democratic constituencies energized and suburban swing voters uneasy about Trump, Southern Democrats are suddenly finding it more possibe to assemble the coalition that the party relies on in other regions. And that could create new opportunities for Democrats across the South, most immediately in suburban House districts in 2018, but potentially also in statewide contests such as the 2018 governor's race in Georgia and Senate battle in Tennessee.

"I am not going to say that any place is going to be noncompetitive next year," says Republican pollster Whit Ayres, who has long specialized in Southern races. "It all depends on the environment and how it shifts over the course of the next year, but it's hard to see it getting a whole lot more favorable for Republicans with Donald Trump as the face of the party."

Democrats still face a long road to re-establishing competitiveness across the South. In 2016, Trump beat Hillary Clinton in all 11 states of the old Confederacy except for Virginia, typically by enormous margins. (Only a year before Jones' win, Trump carried Alabama by nearly 28 percentage points and 590,000 votes.) Even after Jones' win, Democrats still hold just four of the region's 22 Senate seats (including Mark Warner and Tim Kaine in Virginia and Bill Nelson in Florida). And Democrats control just three of the 11 Southern governor's mansions.

Yet Jones' victory continued a modest Southern Democratic revival that includes those three governor wins: one in 2017 (Ralph Northam in Virginia), one in 2016 (Roy Cooper in North Carolina) and the last in 2015 (John Bel Edwards in Louisiana.)

JUST WATCHED North Carolina's Democratic governor featured prominently in the debate over the state's so-called "bathroom bill" targeting transgender people. Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH North Carolina's Democratic governor featured prominently in the debate over the state's so-called "bathroom bill" targeting transgender people. 01:15

Even as they embraced most traditional Democratic priorities -- such as expanding access to Medicaid, defending the Affordable Care Act and ensuring equal treatment for gays -- each of those four candidates ran primarily as a consensus-builder in an increasingly polarized age.

While defending the ACA, opposing the GOP tax plan and affirming his support for legal abortion, Jones promised to seek common ground where possible with Trump and Republicans -- a message he repeated on CNN's "State of the Union" this Sunday. The most memorable television ad of Jones' campaign was a spot called "Honor" in which, speaking directly to the camera, he praised "two brave men" who fought on the Confederate and Union sides at Gettysburg during the Civil War and declared, "There is honor in compromise and civility."

Trippi said Jones faced criticism from some Democratic activists who wanted a more pugnacious approach to Trump. But, he added, there was no evidence that Jones' call for common ground depressed turnout among the core Democratic groups. "That message didn't keep the lid on our own energy and excitement," Trippi said. "You get more angst from activist leaders than you do [from] voters. You gain far more than [you lose from] the few loud voices that don't like working with the other side."

Indeed, Jones achieved two broad campaign goals that some on the left have viewed as incompatible.

On the one hand, he was buoyed by big turnouts and huge margins among core Democratic constituencies. That was especially true among African-Americans, who made up slightly more of the vote, and voted slightly more heavily Democratic, last week than they did when President Barack Obama was re-elected in 2012, according to exit polls. But Jones also benefited from respectable turnout and a commanding margin among young voters, who gave him fully three-fifths of their votes. (He received a thumb on the scale, too, from the 5% of voters who were neither white nor black, a reflection of the increasing Hispanic, Asian and mixed race presence throughout the Southeast.)

JUST WATCHED Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards on CNN in August of 2016 Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards on CNN in August of 2016 06:10

John Anzalone, an Alabama-based Democratic pollster who worked on an independent expenditure effort supporting Jones, says that while Moore won very high percentages in his rural strongholds, they could not match the enhanced turnout in more urbanized Democratic-leaning areas. "We turned out where we had to turn out our voters, and even though he did really well in his strongholds the turnout wasn't big enough," Anzalone said. "We are getting people who have never come out in a midterm or special election, and they are disproportionately our people."

Jones also made deeper inroads among white-collar white voters, such as those in suburbs around Huntsville and Birmingham, than Southern Democrats have usually achieved. In 2016, for instance, exit polls showed that Clinton carried 45% of college-educated whites nationally but only about one-third or less in Florida, Texas and Georgia. In 2014, Democratic Senate candidates didn't win more than one-third of college-educated whites in any Southern state with an exit poll except North Carolina and Virginia. In 2012, the last time an exit poll was conducted in Alabama, Obama won only one-fifth of college-educated whites there.

Last week, though, the exit poll found that Jones won 40% of college-educated whites in Alabama, double Obama's share. That reaffirmed the movement evident in the Virginia race, where Northam reached 51% among college-educated whites, considerably more than Democrats had garnered in any recent statewide race there. Although exit polls weren't available in the June special election for a suburban House seat outside of Atlanta, Democrat Jon Ossoff could not have finished so close to Republican Karen Handel, the narrow winner, without significant gains among those voters too.

The movement toward Southern Democrats this year has been greatest among college-educated white women in both Virginia (where Northam carried 58% of them) and Alabama (where Jones took 45%). But each gained substantially among well-educated men too.

Ayres says the intense distaste for Trump among college-educated white women represents a clear and present danger for any Republican who must court a heavily suburban constituency, even in the South. "If you put Alabama together with Virginia, it's very clear that college-educated suburban women are rejecting Trump and his style and what he has brought to the country," Ayres said. "[This] is a logical extension of the patterns we saw in the presidential election in 2016. Republicans traded fast growing, large, better-educated counties for slow growing, smaller less well-educated counties. And it was a trade that worked well for Trump, barely, in Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, but it's hardly a formula for long-term success."

Even amid these gains, the big blinking yellow light for Democrats is the continuing Republican hold on the blue-collar, evangelical and rural voters who play such a large role in many Southern states. Trippi said that while Trump's combative persona helped mobilize African-Americans and young people, and enlarged the opening for Jones with white-collar whites, the President showed a potent capacity to tug his coalition back toward Moore whenever it appeared to waver. "He has this weird thing where he would help fuel our positive message [on working together] and then he would roll in and create the tribalism that would help them all move back to Moore," Trippi said.

Still, Jones -- like Ralph Northam and Roy Cooper before him -- wasn't annihilated among working-class white voters by quite as large a margin as Clinton or Obama or most Southern Democratic Senate candidates in 2014. Trippi said the campaign's research found that Trump's "divisive negative style ... was starting to wear even on" those voters, who have been Trump's most loyal.

Democrats still face many obstacles in the South. But Trump's turbulent presidency may be creating more opportunity than almost anyone anticipated for the party to begin overcoming them.