(CNN) Everything seems to be going the Democrats' way on their march for House control in November. Republicans, including House Speaker Paul Ryan, are retiring left and right. Democrats continue to overperform in special elections. Nonpartisan handicappers, including CNN, continue to move more races in the Democrats' direction.

And yet, the Democrats' position on the generic congressional ballot seems to have worsened since the beginning of the year. Just this month, four "gold standard" pollsters (i.e., live interview surveys that call cell-phones and are transparent about their data) show an average lead for the Democrats of just five percentage points on the generic congressional ballot. That's down considerably from 14 points in December among gold standard polls.

So what is going on, and should Democrats be worried?

There certainly has been a decline in the Democratic position since the end of last year, though it's not entirely clear that the changing numbers should shift our perceptions of what will occur in November.

The Democratic lead on the generic congressional ballot in gold standard polling over the last two months is among the worst it has been this cycle. They were up by just five points this month. In March, Democrats were ahead by seven points in seven gold standard polls. Before that, there hadn't been two consecutive months when Democrats held a generic congressional ballot lead in gold standard polling of seven points or less since March and April 2017. That suggests that what we're seeing is real movement and not statistical noise.

Read More(CNN) Former intelligence professionals angered by what they view as attacks on the intelligence community by President Donald Trump are channeling their grievances by running for office in 2018.

Running as Democrats, these former intelligence officers are touting their experience as part of their pitch to voters in their respective districts across the country.

In particular, they are taking aim at what they view as Trump's attacks on the intelligence and national security community.

The President has repeatedly criticized the special counsel's investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 US election and whether the Trump campaign was involved in any way in that interference. He has also openly questioned the assessment from intelligence agencies that Russia was involved in the hacking of the Democratic National Committee.

Abigail Spanberger, who served in the CIA for eight years and is one of the top Democratic candidates for her primary race in Virginia's 7th District, said she finds the political climate "stunning."

Read More(CNN) The former Cambridge Analytica employee whose revelations about his former company's use of Facebook data sparked global outrage will appear before Democrats on the House Intelligence and Judiciary committees next week.

Claims made by Christopher Wylie, the former employee, raised questions about how the company handled data on millions of American Facebook users and led to Facebook suspending Cambridge Analytica from its platform while it investigates.

The company was hired by Donald Trump's presidential campaign during the 2016 election.

Wylie confirmed to CNN on Thursday that he would appear before the House Judiciary Committee on Tuesday and the House Intelligence Committee on Wednesday.

"I hope to work with lawmakers to address the national security issues emerging from data misuse on platforms like Facebook," he told CNN. "This goes far beyond the activities of Cambridge Analytica — the security of these platforms is becoming an essential part of protecting democracies from malicious actors."

Read MoreWashington (CNN) A wide array of House and Senate Republicans are not yet ready to endorse President Donald Trump's bid for a second term, a reflection of the deep uncertainty on Capitol Hill over his political standing amid growing problems at home and abroad.

In interviews with a cross-section of more than two dozen GOP lawmakers, ranging from rank-and-file members, conservatives and party leaders, many refused to say they'd back Trump's re-election bid -- a surprise declaration given that members of Congress are typically quick to endorse sitting presidents of their own party without hesitation. Hardly any would offer a categorical endorsement of the President.

"I don't know what the world is going to look like," said Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn, a Texas Republican, when asked if he'd endorse Trump for re-election. "But let's say it's not something I've given any thought to."

Asked several days later if he had given thought to it, Cornyn demurred.

"I haven't even thought about that election," said Cornyn, No. 2 in the Senate GOP conference. "I'm worried about the midterm election."

He's not alone. Many lawmakers sought to avoid the topic altogether.

"Look, I'm focused on opioids," said Sen. Lamar Alexander, the veteran Republican from Tennessee, referring to efforts in Congress to deal with the drug epidemic. "And I was just reelected myself three years ago. So, I'm focused on that."

And others said they were still uncertain the President would ultimately stand for re-election -- even though the White House and Trump himself have repeatedly said he would do so, as he's hired a campaign manager, has been raising money and holding campaign rallies in anticipation of 2020. Unlike past presidents who have waited to announce their reelection bids, Trump made clear immediately after taking office that he's running again.

Still, many Republicans aren't certain he'll do it.

"That's a little loaded," said Rep. Bill Huizenga of Michigan when asked if he'd support Trump for re-election. "One: we need to make sure that he's actually moving forward and wants to go after this -- so when he makes a declaration, then I think that would be a time to determine whether there are others (who) run or not."

White House officials did not provide a comment for this story. Trump, however, may have little concern about whether his party in Washington is fully behind him. Few lawmakers backed his primary bid in 2016, and many abandoned him in the general election after the now-infamous "Access Hollywood" tape emerged showing him talking crudely about groping women.

Come 2020, things may be no different.

The conservative South Carolina Rep. Mark Sanford, when asked about backing Trump's re-election bid, said: "I'm worried about my own race right now."

And the moderate Adam Kinzinger of Illinois had a similar refrain.

"That's 2020 -- pretty far away," he said when asked if he'd back Trump for re-election.

GOP skeptical Trump would lose to primary challenge

Moreover, Trump could face a primary challenger in 2020, though many Republicans on the Hill don't think it's possible that any viable challenger will emerge. Arizona Sen Jeff Flake, a frequent Trump critic who is retiring at year's end, won't rule out a potential primary challenge against the President. And he contended that Trump's staunch support within the party could weaken by the 2020 primary season.

"I wouldn't gauge what support there is a year-and-a-half from now from what support there is now," Flake told CNN. "Certainly, now, this is Donald Trump's party. The base is with him in a big way. Believe me, we all know. But that's not to say that will hold."

It's highly unusual for sitting presidents to face primaries --- much less serious contenders. In 1992, George H.W. Bush fended off a challenge from Pat Buchanan, who ran a populist campaign against the sitting GOP president but didn't win a single primary. In 1980, President Jimmy Carter faced a fierce primary from then-Sen. Ted Kennedy, who eventually conceded after a bitter fight. And in 1976, Ronald Reagan tried to pull off an upset against President Gerald Ford but fell short at the GOP convention. All three sitting presidents lost their reelection bids.

This time around, few Republicans think that potential challengers -- like Flake or Ohio Gov. John Kasich -- would have a chance to win.

If Kasich runs, Ohio Sen. Rob Portman appears likely to side with Trump, whom he said is "very popular in Ohio among Republicans."

Portman said he plans to endorse "our standard-bearer, and I assume that will be Mr. Trump."

But asked if there's a possibility he wouldn't back Trump, Portman added: "I mean I would assume that he'll run for re-election but I don't know. Some would say that he's going to get his work done and move back to the private sector, so who knows, who knows? It's just speculative at this point."

Awaiting the midterms

What puts Republicans on Capitol Hill in an awkward spot is the fact that Trump's approval numbers remain rock-solid among core GOP voters, standing at 85% among Republicans in a recent Quinnipiac poll. But if they side too closely with Trump, they risk alienating the broader electorate, where his poll numbers have been historically low.

It's his shaky standing that could prompt a Democratic wave in this fall's elections, with the GOP at serious risk of losing the House and potentially even the Senate. If that were to happen, some believe, Republicans in the Washington will begin to search for a new GOP candidate come 2020.

"Wait until the midterms," said the outgoing GOP Rep. Charlie Dent, a moderate from Pennsylvania. "If we get wiped out, the question is going to be: 'Should we do that again?'" referring to backing Trump for re-election.

And even some loyal Trump supporters are cautious about 2020, waiting for the midterms to play out first.

"I've supported the President in the past and support him now but three years from now?" said Louisiana Sen. John Kennedy, a freshman Republican. "I think the midterms are a long ways away in terms of politics; I don't get involved that far ahead."

Sen. John Thune, the No. 3 Republican in the Senate, asked if he would support Trump in 2020, said: "Well that's a long ways off. I want to get through 2018 first."

But Thune, who called on Trump to drop out in 2016 after the "Access Hollywood" tape emerged , added a note of optimism for Trump, saying that he expects "most of us would probably be behind him" if "he continues to get things done for the American people."

Others wouldn't go that far, including Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart, a Republican from the pivotal swing state of Florida, who said "it's premature" to say if he'll endorse Trump's re-election bid.

"I'm focused on working and doing what I do and so to talk about what might happen in that time I think is premature," Diaz-Balart said. "We have one President, he's President until the next election, and I will continue to work with him like I work with everybody else to get things done."

Yet despite Trump's public refrain that the party is more united than ever, he has yet to win over some Republicans who didn't back him in 2016. And some have no plans to back him now -- at least not yet.

"I did not endorse the President for the Republican nomination in 2016," said the moderate GOP Sen. Susan Collins of Maine. "I supported first Jeb Bush and then John Kasich. So, again, I think it is far too early to make a judgment of that type."(CNN) A group of Democratic operatives and top pollsters are trying to answer a question ahead of the midterm elections that perplexed the most seasoned minds in politics in 2016: How can Democrats break through the Donald Trump-dominated conversation?

The Navigator Research project launched on Wednesday to determine not only what issues Democratic candidates and operatives should talk about in their races, but also how Democrats should frame and cast the issues with persuadable voters.

Democrats, eager to bounce back from a demoralizing 2016 election, have benefited from a wave of new energy and anti-Trump fervor. But, hoping not to overplay their hand, some operatives have cautioned candidates about focusing too heavily on the President and, instead, encouraged them to talk about how his chaotic presidency has impacted everyday life for voters.

Republicans hope to run on a growing economy and the tax law they passed late last year. But facing skeptical independents, top GOP operatives are bracing for a tough year.

Enter Trump, who throughout his relatively short political career has dominated the entire conversation, knocking candidates off message with tweets and commanding attention whenever and wherever he talks.

Now that he is the President, Democrats have struggled to figure out how to break through that messaging dominance. A number of top operatives believe they know the best issues to talk about in the midterms -- namely health care, tax reform and corruption -- but few have figured out the best frames and language to use to break through the Trump vortex.

Navigator Research, along with representatives from the AFL-CIO, the Center for American Progress, Emily's List, the Latino Victory Project and the Roosevelt Institute, plans to do monthly analysis on Democratic messaging, testing everything from what issues to address to how those issues should be framed. This month the group analyzed three issues: the economy, the sense of corruption in Washington, D.C. and Trump's conduct.

The group, which includes alumni from the 2016 campaigns of both Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders, found that on Trump's conduct, Democrats focus more on the general chaos around the White House, not on more ancillary issues like the way Trump uses his time.

For example, Jefrey Pollock, the president of Global Strategy Group, said voters in focus groups generally didn't seem to care about "Donald Trump's golf game and how much he pays."

Instead, the group found that the general sense of unease and disarray around the White House is fertile ground for Democrats. Navigator Research asked their online focus group participants, for example, to pick photos that describe the President's White House.

Among the pictures people picked: a circus big top tent, the "hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil" monkeys and a woman with her head in her hands.

"I think that the current situation is a circus," a female voter told the group, "and Donald Trump is the Ringmaster."

Pollock, one of the lead pollsters on the project, said that the effort is looking to "figure out better ways for progressives to talk about" key issues.

"There is a vacuum for the right language and the best way to talk about these things," Pollock said. "In an environment where the narrative is as short of a tweet, you really got to get your words right."

Expecting Republicans will focus on the economy this year, Democrats have been pressed to determine a way to talk about the issue when most voters feel like things are getting better.

Pollster Margie Omero, a principal at GBA Strategies, said that while voters feel like the economy is strong, they also sense "there is fragility in their own economic situation."

"I am one ER trip from being broke," Omero said, recalling what they heard in their online focus groups.

The group's advice to Democrats is to focus their messaging not on what is going on right now -- something Trump will surely talk about on the campaign trail -- but play into the sense that it is "Americans at the top of the pyramid who are benefiting the most while regular Americans are not," Pollock said.

On corruption, the group found that persuadable voters think corruption is endemic to both Democrats and Republicans, but that the main concern voters have is how donors are benefiting from the Trump administration.

"People are worried about donors, donors, donors," Pollock said. "They are concerned about the influence of donors and they overwhelming believe that it is the Republicans and the Republican politicians" who use their offices to benefit donors.

Navin Nayak, executive director of the Center for American Progress Action Fund, added it's more than the daily swirl of controversy around Trump's cabinet, too.

"The real challenge for Republicans right now is how the American people are perceiving their congressional agenda over the last 15 months," Nayak said.

This is where the GOP-backed tax plan comes in. Instead of focusing on the broader plan, the group said, it's important for Democrats to focus their messaging on the idea that "the tax plan was passed in order to help wealthy individuals and corporations who regularly support Republican campaigns."