(CNN) The special election train pulls into Arizona on Tuesday, when the votes will be counted from the state's 8th Congressional District .

Republican Debbie Lesko, by several metrics, is favored to win over Democrat Hiral Tipirneni in the race to replace Republican Trent Franks, who vacated the seat following allegations of sexual harassment.

But the result could be closer than Republicans would like.

Early voting results look good for Lesko. O ver 150,000 ballots have been returned , which is about 80% of the number of ballots cast for governor in the district in the last midterm election. Of the ballots returned, 49% have been from Republicans, compared with 28% from Democrats.

That 21-percentage-point advantage for Republicans is actually slightly greater than their 17-point edge among all active registered voters in the district . Democrats could close the gap on the day of the election, but it seems unlikely at this time that Democrats will greatly outperform the voter registration baseline of the district.

This makes Arizona 8 unlike many other special elections since Trump took office. In those, Democrats benefited from low turnout among Republican voters

To win, Tipirneni will have to convert a large percentage of Republican-leaning independent and Republican voters to overcome the Republican lean of the district, many of whom have no ties to the Democratic Party. (This is different from the special election in Pennsylvania's 18th Congressional District, where Democrats held a registration advantage that doesn't exist for them in Arizona.)

We don't have any "gold standard" polls in the district. The polls we do have either didn't use live interviews, didn't call cellphones or were put out by a campaign. Historically, polls like these are less predictive of the final result.

A poll earlier this month from Emerson Colleg e showed Lesko and Tipirneni within a point of each other. This tracked closely with a poll put out by Tipirneni's campaign, although campaigns typically release only the polling most favorable to them.

A second, more recent poll from Emerson College had Lesko up by single digits, and an OH Predictive Insights poll gave her a 10-point advantage.

It shouldn't be too surprising that there is a wide spread in the polling. Polling a special election where you're not exactly sure who is going to turn out to vote is difficult, so turnout models among pollsters can differ greatly.

Historically, this has meant that polling in House special elections isn't all that predictive. If you were to construct a 95% confidence interval from House polling in the final three weeks of special elections since 2004, it would be +/- 13 percentage points.

The polls we do have, however, appear to indicate Tipirneni is outperforming the partisan baseline in the district based on the last two presidential elections. In a neutral environment, we'd expect Lesko to win on average by about 25 points. With the limited data we have at this time, that doesn't seem likely.

If the polling is anywhere close to accurate and Tipirneni does overpeform, this would mark the ninth congressional election this cycle in which the Democrat did better than the partisan baseline. We'll know for sure when results come in Tuesday night.For starters, the seat has no bearing on the balance on power in the House as Republicans hold a clear majority. And after a court mandate that new maps go into effect, this seat will likely be eliminated next Congress.

So the real importance of Tuesday's special election pitting Republican Rick Saccone against Democrat Conor Lamb is, instead, what the results say about the strength of each party heading into November's midterm elections.

Republicans may hope that a win will provide them with an ego boost . But history tells us it's far more significant to look at the margin between Lamb and Saccone, not at who ultimately wins or loses. And if we're only looking at the margin, it's pretty clear that the result in Pennsylvania's 18th could very likely end up being bad news for Republicans.

We know from past years that the average special election can tell us a lot about what will occur nationally in the midterms, so long as we look at how much the margins in them deviate from past margins in the district.

Former GOP Rep. Tim Murphy, who ran unopposed in both 2016 and 2014, won the district by 28 points in 2012 . Republican President Donald Trump won it by about 20 percentage points , when he was losing the national popular vote by 2 points. It's a district that Republican Mitt Romney won by 17 points, when he was losing the national popular vote by 4 points.

In other words, the race shouldn't be close even if the national environment was neutral. Saccone should be winning by double digits.

three Yet, the available polls show Lamb and Saccone neck-and-neck. An average of the surveys , none of which meet CNN's polling standards, taken within three weeks of the election actually have Lamb up by a point. That means this race is a tossup given the true margin of error with 95% confidence for special House election polling averages (in which there is at least two polls part of the average) being about +/- 10 percentage points.

Now, any single special election can be a false positive (or false negative, depending on your angle). Eight years ago, Democrats won a closely watched special election in southwest Pennsylvania, but Republicans romped in the 2010 midterms. This year, most observers regard Lamb as a strong candidate , while Saccone is seen as a weak fundraiser . Additionally, the district is ancestrally Democratic , as seen through the 6-point Democratic advantage in party registration in the district. Party registration in the past has been crucial in explaining House results, even after controlling for the presidential lean of the district.

Some of the Democratic edge may reflect people not changing their registration to align with their current feelings towards federal politics. It could also reflect some good will left towards Democrats in the district, as demonstrated by some Democratic strength in local elections.

But there's ample reason to think that Pennsylvania 18 is more of an indicator of the results in November than not. A close race there would be right in line with what other special elections have been showing so far. In the average federal special election this cycle, Democrats have been outperforming their baseline based off the prior two presidential elections by 16 percentage points.

A 16-point swing in federal elections lines up with a very good year for the Democrats in the House vote come the fall.

To match that 16 point average, Lamb needs only to come within 5 points of Saccone on Tuesday.

A close Pennsylvania 18 result would also be another datapoint to demonstrate that Republicans are losing the most ground in some of Trump's strongest areas . We know that some of the Republicans' biggest under-performances in special elections relative to the presidential baseline have been in states that flipped from Barack Obama to Trump (such as Iowa, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin) and states along the Appalachian Mountains where coal had , at least at one point, played a significant part of the economy (such as Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Tennessee).

These are areas where Democrats may try to be more competitive in the 2018 midterms.Intriguing!

Here's the key bit:

"Clinton is starring in the Republican Party's 2018 midterm strategy. With no Democrat to attack in the White House for the first time in nearly a decade, Republicans are betting big that the ghost of Clinton will serve them well in 2018.

"Even if she avoids the spotlight moving forward, the Republican Party plans to evoke her early and often in key congressional races, particularly in regions Trump won, which feature most of the midterm season's competitive races."

And, there's some evidence to back up the Clinton focus within the GOP. Witness the new ad by Don Blankenship , a Republican candidate for Senate in West Virginia.

"We don't need to investigate our president," says the ad's narrator . "We need to arrest Hillary."

It's not clear what Blankenship wants to arrest Clinton for -- email server? Uranium One deal? -- just that he wants to make sure she is incarcerated.

There's a BIG difference between Republican candidates and committees running ads featuring Clinton and those ads actually working to turn the 2018 midterm election into a referendum on the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee.

The former could well happen. What special elections since Trump's 2016 victory have shown is that the Democratic base is hugely energized -- largely by their dislike for Trump and their disgust with the decisions he has made as president. Meanwhile, the Republican base is fat and happy; their side control the White House, the Senate, the House, the majority of governor's mansions and the majority of state legislatures in the country.

That sort of disparity in energy between the two party bases is bad news for the side suffering from the passion deficit. Midterm elections tend to be battles between the bases so if one side is much more enthusiastic, it can lead to major seat losses for the other side.

How do you motivate the GOP base? You find the equivalent of Donald Trump for the left. The problem, of course, is that there is no equivalent on the right for how the left regards Donald Trump. Trump is president. Hillary Clinton is a private citizen. It's just not the same.

Which doesn't mean, of course, that raising the specter of Clinton in ads won't work for some Republican candidates hoping to rev up the base. Republicans loathe Clinton and some -- many -- could have a Pavlovian reaction to the mention of her name and a picture of her on their TV screen. (In a September 2017 CNN national poll conducted by SSRS, 91% of Republicans had an unfavorable impression of Clinton; her overall unfavorable rating was 52%.)

The problem with the we-will-make-this-election-all-about-Hillary logic is that it has no logical end. Clinton isn't in office. She isn't in charge of much of anything. She will not run again for any national office and she likely wouldn't win if she did.

How, then, do you raise the stakes of voting for a Democrat who is in the same party as Clinton? Like, if, say, Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin gets re-elected in West Virginia, is he going to somehow find a way to install Clinton as president or work to enact her agenda? Um, no.

History tells us that midterm elections are always a referendum on the president and his party. Since World War I, there have been only three elections -- 1934, 1998 and 2002 -- in which the president's party has not lost seats in a midterm election. In all three of those cases, there was a cataclysmic event that intervened: The Great Depression, Bill Clinton's impeachment and the September 11, 2001 terror attacks, respectively.

Short of something that major happening, the Republican Party is assured of losing seats in the House this fall -- the only question is whether they lose the 23 that would reinstall Democrats to the majority.

The reality is that voters make decisions based on the politicians in office, the elected officials who can impact their lives -- often, in their mind, in a negative way. Clinton simply isn't that. She is gone from office, never to return. Whether or not she is a visible presence on the campaign trail or fundraising circuit this fall -- my guess is she might do some money raising but isn't likely to be a hot commodity on the stump -- won't change the fact that she's out of office, and staying there.

Donald Trump, on the other hand, will be president through (at least) 2020.Washington (CNN) Here are the stories our DC insiders are talking about in this week's "Inside Politics" forecast, where you get a glimpse of tomorrow's headlines today.

1) GOP's $$$ worries

There is considerable grumbling among senior Republicans about the midterm elections prognosis, and in this case it has little or nothing to do with President Trump. At least not directly.

CNN's John King reports that for months, more seasoned members of the party's leadership have been warning younger members about what's needed when running in such a difficult climate. Those warnings include urgent appeals to raise more money; resources for ads and research and staff are always important, but all the more so in a midterm climate where Republicans know the wind is in their face.

But a new wave of fund-raising reports filed in recent days show way more Republicans on the short end of the money chase, especially in races viewed as critical to the 2018 battlefield.

On the Senate side, Missouri was one source of GOP grumbling.

Josh Hawley is the GOP candidate against Sen. Claire McCaskill -- one of the Democratic incumbents viewed as vulnerable this year.

"Hawley has $$ problems, as do all of the challengers," one veteran GOP strategist said in an email exchange. "Ted Cruz is the #1 GOP fund-raiser and [he] has been out-raised the last three quarters."

The GOP grumbling isn't limited to Senate races.

In the 88 House races CNN ranks as the most competitive, consider this significant difference:

*40 Republican incumbents in these races have been out-raised by their Democratic challengers.

*Only two Democratic incumbents in this group were out-raised by GOP challengers.

The numbers are feeding talk, even at this late date, that there could be a few more GOP House retirements in the offing.

A second well-placed GOP source said he knows of a handful of House Republicans who are "on the retirement fence. The only way to separate (those seriously considering retirement) from jittery nervous nellies is [to] look at cash on hand."

2) Pruitt's lobbying problem

The bad headlines keep coming for embattled EPA administrator, Scott Pruitt. The latest is from POLITICO, where Eliana Johnson is reporting on Pruitt's latest involving lobbying, his landlord and his place of employment.

"Contrary to Pruitt's public denials about the lobbyist who was giving him a cut rate deal on rent, [he] had business before the EPA during the time [Pruitt] was living in the home," Johnson reports. "The lobbyist firm filed a report on Friday that indicated that that lobbyist was lobbying the EPA during that time. So Pruitt looks like he's caught in another difficult situation at a time that his leadership of the agency is already under scrutiny. I'm not sure how long this can last, but the Trump administration already has three nominees before the Senate that need confirmation so it would be really difficult for them to add a fourth."

3) Iran deal deadline looming

The Trump administration is facing a May 12th deadline. The White House has to decide whether it will walk away from the deal altogether. Big factors in the decision may be discussions President Trump will have with two world leaders, French president Emmanuel Macron and Germany's Chancellor, Angela Merkel . Bloomberg's Margaret Talev tells us those aren't the only two to watch.

"Between Macron's visit and Angela Merkel's visit Friday, a lot of ground will be covered in terms of the European leaders. There are a couple other things I watch for: any phone calls from Theresa May and interaction with the Israelis and Saudis, perhaps the Chinese, and any of that paperwork that the European political directors and national security advisers have been trying to put together with the US," Talev says.

4) CIA director nominee dilemma

President Trump's pick to become the next CIA director is facing many questions from senators about the destruction of CIA tapes from 2005 that show terrorism suspects being waterboarded. The CIA has declassifed a memo that absolves nominee Gina Haspel of responsibility for the destroying of the tapes -- but as CNN's Manu Raju explains, the controversy isn't a closed chapter just yet.

"She has not alleviated concerns from Republicans and Democrats alike on this committee. She said she was simply ordered to carry out the destruction of the tapes. She wrote a cable that she did not think would be sent to CIA field officers to destroy the tapes. She thought it was going to go through the proper channels, but her superior at the time moved forward without her knowledge. The CIA is trying to push back declassifying sections of a report from 2011 to say that she did nothing wrong. But nevertheless, members still have a lot of questions," Raju reports. "They want more records declassified and it's going to be a big sticking point [at] her confirmation hearing next month to determine whether or not she gets the job."

5) Trump's tariffs -- good or bad?

One of President Trump's big campaign promises was all about trade and putting tariffs in place to try to level out the playing field against international competitors like China. But these proposals have some people worried about a trade war. Internally, there are a few different schools of thought inside the White House. The Weekly Standard's Michael Warren explains:

"Publicly the White House is saying, 'Look, these [tariffs] are a tool, a means to an end in order to get China to behave properly.' Fair but free trade is the line, publicly, but there is a view within the White House -- Peter Navarro is sort of the loudest voice in the White House on this -- that tariffs are actually good, that they can help reduce foreign investment and increase domestic investment," Warren explains. "That is not a view held by the vast majority of people in the White House. But there is one issue here: one very important person is receptive to [this], and that's President Trump."West Valley, Utah (CNN) Mitt Romney did not win the Utah Republican Party's nomination on Saturday, meaning he must compete in a June primary election as he seeks to replace retiring US Sen. Orrin Hatch.

After a wild and raucous day of voting at the Utah GOP convention, the former Massachusetts governor and 2012 Republican presidential nominee was unable to win the 60% that he needed to head to the November ballot unopposed. When none of the 12 candidates were able to cross that threshold, the party continued with successive rounds of caucus voting until one candidate reached 40%.

On the second round of voting, Utah state representative Mike Kennedy emerged in the lead with 50.88%. Romney came in a close second with 49.12%.

Romney and Kennedy will now compete in a primary set for June 26.

After the vote, Romney said he was looking forward to a primary race.

"This is terrific for the people of Utah, and I really want to thank the delegates who stayed so late to give me the kind of boost that I got here today," Romney said, standing on the convention floor after the proceedings were adjourned. "We're going to have a good primary."

Kennedy, who had framed the race as David vs. Goliath, said when asked why he had edged out Romney in the vote that he wasn't sure.

"I don't know," Kennedy said when asked why he thought his message appealed more to delegates than Romney's. "I don't know -- it's just my message."

"We've got 60 days to reach out to as many voters as we can."

Romney is considered a favorite to win the seat. He is widely admired in this heavily Republican state, where he helped rescue the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympic Games. But when he decided to seek Hatch's seat, he landed in the middle of a long-running fight within the Utah Republican Party over its process for choosing its nominees.

Some Utah delegates and grassroots activists here have fought strenuously to maintain control over the process by keeping the party's complex nominating caucuses, instead of allowing candidates to secure a spot on the ballot by gathering signatures.

After the protracted legal fight, the legislature reached a compromise that created a two-option process to get to the ballot: Candidates could either gather the requisite 27,000 signatures or participate in the GOP caucuses.

Romney sought to straddle the divide by doing both, engaging delegates in all of Utah's counties. He has put 9,000 miles on his 2002 Chevy truck visiting elected officials and delegates all over the state to answer their questions and persuade them to support him.

But some delegates still resent the fact that Romney collected signatures, a process they feel favors deep-pocketed candidates over lesser-known contenders.

Romney demurred when asked after the vote whether he felt that he'd been punished by delegates who were angry that he had gathered signatures.

"I know there were many people who were not enthusiastic that we gathered signatures, but that's something I did; I'm proud of the fact that we did, and I now have 52,000 people who signed up to support me," he said, referring to the final tally of signatures that his campaign submitted to the lieutenant governor's office.

Romney's speech to delegates

Romney made his case to the delegates in a timed, five-minute speech Saturday night — taking his turn eighth among the 12 candidates running for US Senate after a random drawing. (The field included a candidate named Abe Lincoln -- who literally campaigned around the state at the convention dressed up as Abraham Lincoln.)

Romney rejected the notion that he was Goliath.

"I'm not Goliath, Washington DC is Goliath," Romney said, introducing himself to the 4,000 delegates as a "neighbor," a person of faith, and someone who helped rescue the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympic Games.

Kennedy, who also is a physician and an attorney, also invoked David and Goliath in his nominating speech.

"I started with David and Goliath, but not for the reason you might think," he said, alluding to Romney. "In this battle you are David, firm in your fight for liberty. Goliath is Washington DC -- intimidating but beatable. And I, I am your stone ready to be flung at the foes of liberty who seek to oppress us," he said, to cheers. "Working together we will defeat the Goliaths in Washington and restore our government where it belongs."

Romney took some heat for being a latecomer to Utah and the former governor of a blue state. Earlier, another Romney rival, Jeremy Friedbaum, pulled out a carpetbag as a prop on stage to protest the fact that Romney moved to Utah more recently than some of the other candidates. (Ultimately Friedbaum was booed off the stage and ended up with three votes).

Romney also spoke against federal overreach, particularly on federal lands, and said he would represent "Utah values" in Washington.

"It's time to restore the freedoms guaranteed by our Constitution," he said.

Romney unpopular with some GOP activists

In an interview at the convention, Lt. Gov. Spencer Cox noted that Utah Gov. Gary Herbert lost the party's nomination two years ago because of the same anger roiling among the delegates.

"We lost by 10 points at convention, it was 55-45, and then we won by 44 points in the primary," said Cox, who was on the ticket with Herbert. "Sometimes the 4,000 delegates that are here aren't exactly representative of the 650,000 Republicans that are in this state. It's a very small percentage, people who tend to be excited about giving up a Saturday to come sit in a room for hours on end and talk about wonky things."

"I can tell you that Mitt Romney is still incredibly popular here in the state of Utah regardless of what happens today, and I anticipate that he'll have no problem in a primary," Cox said in an interview before the U.S. Senate voting began.

Though Trump is far more unpopular among Republicans here in Utah than in other red states — in part because of the more moderate stance of Utah Republicans and the Mormon Church on immigration — some Republican voters are still angry at Romney for criticizing the President's harsh rhetoric on immigrants and his crude commentary during the 2016 campaign.

"(Romney) did everything he could -- probably more than any man in America -- to get Hillary Clinton elected," said Ken Welch, a 54-year-old Salt Lake City Republican who stopped delegates in the hallway outside the stands at the Maverik Center arena (where delegates were voting) urging them to oppose Romney.

"He had national news conferences, and spoke on Fox News, to announce that Donald Trump was a fraud, he was a lousy business man. He's a 'Never Trumper,'" said Welch, an insurance salesman (who added that he would support any other US Senate candidates). "If he would have succeeded in bringing down Donald Trump, we most likely would have ended up with Hillary Clinton."

Romney and Trump ultimately reached a truce -- and Trump considered him for secretary of State. Trump has endorsed Romney in his Senate bid.

On the campaign trail in Utah, Romney has noted that he largely agrees with Trump on policy, but does not condone Trump's harsh tone on immigration, his rapid-fire insults over Twitter, or his frequent attempts at character assassination as a governing style.

Kennedy praised Trump throughout his speech to delegates Saturday before the vote. Romney has been more circumspect -- going so far as to say that he is not ready to endorse the President's 2020 re-election campaign.

After the convention vote, Romney again pointed out that he has, for the most part, agreed with President on policy.

"In terms of the President's policies, in this first year, we're pretty much on the same page," Romney said. "He did not pursue the 45% tariff on all foreign goods that I think would have been problematic for the economy; but he has put in place a tax proposal that is going to get the economy going better; he's been a person who has de-regulated a good portion of the economy -- a good thing. And of course, he made a decision on Bear's Ears and the Grand Staircase that I think was the right decision."

But Romney went on to warn that he would continue to call out the President when warranted.

"If he says things that I think are off the mark in a serious way, I'll point that out," Romney continued. "I think the President recognizes that I'm someone who calls them like I see them, and I appreciate that as well."

Romney said he did not know much about Kennedy's record, but he noted that they both agreed with the Utah GOP platform. He pointed out, however, that he has more experience working with lawmakers in Washington.

"I think my experience in the business world; in the not-for-profit world with the Olympics and as governor, and also as a nominee for president in our party, gives me the associations that I have in Washington to get things done," he said. "Everybody can talk a good game. We're all for the same policies, but who can actually get the job done? And I hope to get the job done for the people of Utah."

If he wins the primary, Romney will likely face Jenny Wilson, who has attempted to frame the former Massachusetts governor as an interloper who does not understand the needs of Utah, as well as a political insider who does not represent the grassroots.

"It's time we elect a new generation of Utah leaders who will put our interests ahead of their own ambitions," she said in a statement before the GOP convention on Saturday.

Romney has owned a home in Utah since he moved here to serve as chief executive officer of the Salt Lake City Olympic Committee before the 2002 Olympic games. He became a registered voter here in 2014, and he and his wife Ann now live in Holladay next to their son Josh and his family.