(CNN) CNN has projected that Republicans won the special election in Arizona's 8th Congressional District, but once again Democrats have overperformed in a deep red district, in another sign the national environment is in the their favor.

The vote count is not final, but Republican Debbie Lesko is currently ahead of Democrat Hiral Tipirneni by about a 5-point margin.

In a neutral environment, the margin should be much wider. President Donald Trump won the district by 21 percentage points in 2016 and Mitt Romney won it by 25 percentage points in 2012. Combining those outcomes and controlling for how well Democrats did nationally in each of those contests, we can say that Arizona 8 is 25 points more Republican than the nation. Lesko looks like she's going to do about 20 percentage points worse than that.

The result in Arizona 8 fits a pattern so far in special congressional elections this cycle. In every one of the nine so far, Democrats have outperformed the partisan baseline based on the prior two presidential elections.

Including Arizona 8, the average improvement for the Democrats has been 17 percentage points versus the partisan baseline. That's better than any party out of power has done in the lead-up to a midterm cycle since at least 1994.

Read More(CNN) Republicans won a special congressional election Tuesday in the suburbs west of Phoenix, holding on in a reliably red district where Democrats launched a well-organized but long-shot bid to flip the seat.

However, the relatively close margin of victory in a district Donald Trump won by 21 points in 2016 signals trouble for Republicans heading into the midterm elections in November.

"This isn't a great result," one senior national Republican operative bluntly told CNN as results ticked in.

Republican Debbie Lesko, a former state senator, bested Democrat Hiral Tipirneni, a physician, in Arizona's 8th Congressional District. With 94% of the vote counted, Lesko led Tipirneni 52% to 47%.

The seat was opened when Republican Rep. Trent Franks resigned in December amid sexual harassment allegations.

Lesko will fill the seat through the end of this congressional term in January and must run for re-election in November to continue serving.

Even though Republicans avoided another stinging loss in a special election after losing a US Senate race in December in Alabama and Pennsylvania's 18th Congressional District in March, the party's top operatives in Arizona and across the country worried that the narrow margin was a signal of losses to come.

"This was not supposed to be this close," the senior Republican said as representatives from the Lesko campaign touted the win for their candidate. "We really can't blame anything. We got killed among independents. It shouldn't have been this close."

Democrats didn't wait for the final margin before trumpeting the narrow loss as a sign of good things to come for the party. They touted the fact that Tipirneni kept it close in a district where Democrats didn't even put up a candidate in 2014 and 2016, and they argued the slim margin shows their message is resonating in the era of Trump.

Democrats didn't think they would win the race. Arizona's 8th Congressional District has all the hallmarks of a place Republicans should easily win and there are around 78,000 more registered Republicans than Democrats in the area.

But in a year where Democrats, buoyed by anti-Trump fervor, have consistently overperformed their Republican counterparts, the party will look at the loss as a sign that a blue wave is about to crash on Republicans in the general election later this year.

Their thinking heading into the race went like this: If Tipirneni keeps it close with Lesko in a district that Trump won by more than 20 points, Democrats in Arizona stand to make significant gains in key races later this year like a closely watched contest for the state's open Senate seat, a chance to challenge Arizona's Republican governor and a winnable open House seat. Trump won Arizona overall by only roughly 3 points in 2016.

"Every Republican elected in Arizona was just put on notice," a Democratic aide in Arizona told CNN. "Obviously the results are still coming in a little bit but this speaks volumes for what the fall is going to look like in Arizona."

In a statement on Wednesday, Tipirneni conceded the race and said she would run again in November

"Now that nearly all of the votes have been counted, we know that the special election goes to our opponent," she said. "I congratulate Debbie Lesko on a hard-fought campaign, and wish her good luck in Congress."

The race largely hinged on health care, with Tipirneni leaning heavily on her medical background and proposing universal coverage through Medicare expansion. Lesko cast Tipirneni's plans as too liberal for the district and attempted to tie herself to Trump throughout the campaign, namely by backing his plan to build a wall along the US-Mexico border and celebrating the Republican-backed tax reform.

Compared with the race earlier this year that saw Democrat Conor Lamb's unlikely win in suburban Pittsburgh, spending in the Arizona district was relatively minimal and Trump kept his distance.

Tipirneni raised $664,920 during the race, over $100,000 more than Lesko's $539,403. However, that shortfall was made up by outside Republican groups that pumped more than $1 million into the contest for a mix of media and turnout services.

The Democratic National Committee spent $175,000 in the race on online fundraising, digital ads and staff on the ground, including a $75,000 grant to the state party for all its 2018 races, a committee official told CNN hours before polls closed.

The late announcement tracks with what the party did during races in Alabama and Pennsylvania. Not looking to nationalize the race, the party will spend money quietly in a contest and then announce its efforts shortly before polls close.

Trump's first comment on the race came in early April through a Republican National Committee robocall to persuadable voters.

"Nancy Pelosi wants to send a liberal Democrat to Congress to represent you. We can't have that," Trump says in the call, a recording of which was obtained by CNN, that went out to voters on April 6. "If that happens, illegal immigrants will pour right over your border, bringing their drugs and their crime with them, right into your neighborhood, right into your back yard."

The call touted Lesko as a Republican in line with Trump on immigration and urged voters to get out and vote for her early.Washington (CNN) Don Blankenship, the coal executive recently released from federal prison and now running for US Senate in West Virginia, this week accused Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell of having conflicts of interest in foreign relations because his father-in-law is "a wealthy Chinaperson."

Blankenship, one of three GOP leading candidates in the May 8 primary to take on Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin in this year's midterm elections, brought up McConnell's marriage to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao in a radio interview Monday.

He told host Dimitri Vassilaros on West Virginia's 106.3 FM that McConnell's marriage raises "the potential for conflict of interest" in Trump's trade war with China.

"I have an issue when the father-in-law is a wealthy Chinaperson and there's a lot of connections to some of the brass, if you will, in China," Blankenship said.

"I read in books that people think he's soft on China," he added.

Read MoreBut when President Donald Trump implemented the first iteration of his travel ban in January 2017 -- which temporarily kept immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim nations from entering the US -- Saad said her mom was adamant about trekking to the Detroit Metropolitan Airport, where one of many anti-ban protests erupted across the US.

As Saad stood alongside her mother, sister and thousands of her fellow Michigan residents, she said, she felt inspired. "It was just clear, despite the election, that Michigan was just not going to stand for discrimination," she told CNN.

Now, motivated in part by that experience, Saad is running as a Democrat to represent Michigan's 11th Congressional District, which the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has identified as a key target to flip in November.

She is one of more than 90 Muslim American candidates who are running for office across the country, most of them as Democrats.

As they campaign, the fate of many Muslims with hopes of coming to the US lies in the hands of the Supreme Court, which will hear oral arguments concerning the legality of the latest version of Trump's travel ban Wednesday

"My parents came here in search of the American dream," said Saad, who worked at the Department of Homeland Security under the Obama administration. "I got into public service to protect that."

Some candidates -- like Saad and Deedra Abboud, of Arizona -- hope to make it to Capitol Hill to join Democratic Reps. Keith Ellison of Minnesota and André Carson of Indiana, the only two Muslim members of Congress. Others, like Fayaz Nawabi, whose family came to the US from Afghanistan as refugees, and Abdul El-Sayed, an Egyptian-American doctor, are vying for positions at the state and local level. (Nawabi is a candidate for the San Diego City Council and El-Sayed is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor of Michigan.)

Battling Islamophobia

In 2017, a political action group called Jetpac launched a campaign to encourage more Muslims to run for office, offering guidance on how they can get started. The organization offers interested candidates a "playbook," with a curriculum that helps teach list building, how to formulate a campaign message, social media outreach and fundraising.

"We have to elevate Muslim American voices," Jetpac Executive Director Shaun Kennedy told CNN. "American Muslims are fed up of not being included in conversation that is about them ... and they are being made targets."

Kennedy said the program they offer candidates currently has a wait list of about 100 people.

The organization is among a handful of others -- including t he Arab American Institute -- that offer assistance to aspiring Muslim American politicians.

Running for office is challenging for most who decide to enter politics. But for many Muslim Americans, Islamophobia has become an additional obstacle.

According to a Pew Research Center analysis released in November 2017 , "the number of assaults against Muslims in the United States rose significantly between 2015 and 2016, easily surpassing the modern peak reached in 2001, the year of the September 11 terrorist attacks. Half of U.S. Muslim adults (50%) say that in recent years it has become more difficult to be a Muslim in the U.S."

Kennedy said trainees in Jetpac's program often ask how they should deal with racism publicly. "Frequently our advice to them is to be very candid with the media and say, 'Look, don't cover the guy saying hateful things and instead talk about the positive stuff I'm saying and doing instead,' " Kennedy said.

Even with guidance, some Muslim American candidates have said it's tough avoiding anti-Muslim sentiments while campaigning given the current political climate.

Abboud, who is running for Republican Sen. Jeff Flake's open seat in Arizona, has experienced online harassment since announcing her campaign last year.

For example, one person commented on her Facebook page in July 2017 , "Your religion doesn't allow equal rights to women so why are you running for senate?? Your religion teaches woman are worth less than livestock and are treated like animals! You don't have any business holding office in the USA. You should go back to your own country of origin and run for office over there!!"

Flake came to Abboud's defense after the backlash toward her made national headlines. "Hang in there @deedra2018," Flake tweeted. "Sorry you have to put up with this. Lots of wonderful people across AZ. You'll find them."

Hang in there @deedra2018. Sorry you have to put up with this. Lots of wonderful people across AZ. You'll find them. https://t.co/uVfLaAfVV2 — Jeff Flake (@JeffFlake) July 19, 2017

El-Sayed has also faced his fair share of discrimination.

"I think right now there's just a moment where the challenges that come with being Muslim American have hit a fever pitch," El-Sayed told CNN. "We're in a moment where we either slink into the background and wait for permission to come out or we stand up and say we belong here every bit as much as everybody else, and we add to the social fabric of who we are as Americans."

If elected, El-Sayed would be the nation's first Muslim governor.

But, he emphasized, "As a Muslim American, my work is not just about advocating for Muslim Americans."

"I have a beard. My wife wears a hijab," he added. "I don't think that should matter at all."

Why now?

Ellison believes the rise in Muslims running for office stems from what he described as "the Americanization of the American Muslim community."

"The 1965 Voting Rights Act passed within my lifetime," Ellison told CNN in a recent interview. "I was 2 years old when it passed. Before that you didn't see African-Americans being sheriffs or mayors. So the Muslim community is made up of new Americans, many of whom don't come from a democratic tradition, and African-Americans, who come from a democratic country but were excluded from that democracy. That sort of explains why you have this new crop of Muslim candidates and elected officials."

Like other underrepresented groups, including women, many Muslim Americans were inspired to run for office after the 2016 election.

"There does seem to be an increase in Muslim Americans running for office," Evelyn Alsultany, director of the University of Michigan's Arab and Muslim American Studies Department, told CNN. "The Trump presidency has been a catalyst of sorts for Muslims -- and other communities -- to be more politically active."

Still, a handful of Muslim American candidates have emphasized in their campaigns that they are indeed proud Muslims but they are running because they are also proud Americans.

"They love this country, they believe in it, they believe in ideals that animate it," Ellison said.(CNN) Gallup released new polling this week with an eye-popping headline: Donald Trump's re-election numbers are very similar to those of Barack Obama in 2010 and Bill Clinton in 1994.

Wait, WHAT? The narrative of Trump's first 15 months in office has been that he is at historic polling lows. Then this.

What gives? In an attempt to suss that out, my friend -- and resident CNN big brain -- Harry Enten and I exchanged a bunch of emails trying to figure out the Gallup result and what, exactly, it tells us about Trump, Republicans' chances in 2018 and Trump's own fortune heading into his 2020 reelection race.

I've reproduced that email conversation below.

: I was struck by this new Gallup poll -- or at least the headline: " Trump's Re-Elect Figures Similar to Those of Obama, Clinton ."

Trump is at the same place as Obama and Clinton! That's remarkable, given that he has had the worst 15-month polling start of any president in the modern era.

Then I read the fine print. Yes, 37% say that Trump deserves re-election which is the exact same number who said that about Bill Clinton in 1994 and Barack Obama in 2010.

BUT, the numbers for Obama and Clinton are from October 2010 and 1994, respectively. That's after a full year of Republicans spending millions of dollars to campaign against them. We are only in April for Trump -- and the fall campaign is at its earliest stages. Virtually no ads attacking him have even run.

So, apples and oranges, right? Or wrong? And what else did you see in the poll?

Enten: Thanks for the email. I think you're on the right track with thinking this poll result isn't all it's cracked up to be.

Gallup itself released numbers closer to this point (late April of the midterm year) for both Obama and Clinton. Obama was at 46% in late March and 48% in late May of 2010. Far above Trump. Clinton was at 46% in late March and 40% in late April of 1994.

So, I don't know why Gallup did what it did. Of course, one could argue that because Trump's approval rating has been so steady that it will be in a similar position later this year, but I don't like to make assumptions like that. Who knows what all the ads Democrats will run this summer and fall will do to his ratings?

Does that make sense? And I also think there are larger problems with this question, if you're interested in hearing about them?

Cillizza: OK. We agree on that one: The Gallup poll is making an apples-to-oranges comparison.

And, yes, tell me what else you don't love in the poll.

One thing I don't want to lose sight of amid all of this: In 1994 and 2010, the president's party took an absolute beating at the polls -- losing control of the House in both elections. So, even if Trump winds up at 37% in October -- like Clinton and Obama -- that's not great news for Republicans.

Enten: Re: your last point, I think you're 100% correct. The reelect figure is really a stand-in for presidential approval. In the : Re: your last point, I think you're 100% correct. The reelect figure is really a stand-in for presidential approval. In the latest Gallup poll , Trump's at a 38% approval rating. Based upon history, that, on average, points to a net seat loss in the high 30s. Democrats only need a net gain of 23 for control.

So perhaps biggest problem I have with this question is it doesn't make it a choice between a Democrat and a Republican. There's a good chunk of voters who belong to the same party as the President who are thinking to themselves that they want a different person representing their party, but will ultimately vote for their party's nominee.

If you're truly interested in gauging the presidential matchup at this point, I think it's better to ask a question which forces the respondent think about a Democrat and a Republican. At the very least, it gets us beyond simply the incumbent. As it stands, this question is really just another way of asking about approval and disapproval. So what's the point?

When we ask about a Democrat vs. a Republican, it's when we see how unique Trump's standing in the polls really is...

Thoughts?

Cillizza: If by "unique," you mean "historically bad," then I am with you ;)

I think the country was significantly polarized before the 2016 election. But that election coupled with the fact that Trump won and immediately began governing in ways to please his base (and not a lot of other people) took that polarization to new heights.

The impact of that rush to your partisan extreme on polling is that almost EVERY question you can ask essentially becomes a proxy for this one: "Do you like President Trump or not?" Which makes nuance in polling -- and how it informs opinions about Trump -- very hard to divine.

Enten: I think there's something to that. If you're a Republican, you like Trump. As I've written about, : I think there's something to that. If you're a Republican, you like Trump. As I've written about, the Republican Party is Trump's now . Heck, take a look at where Trump's approval rating is with Republicans. It's in the mid 80s (very close to the re-elect question). It basically makes it impossible for there to be a primary challenger who has any shot of taking Trump down.

But to your larger point, I think in order to fully grasp the historicity of Trump's bad ratings, we need to look at how he's doing against potential Democratic nominees. Then we need to compare that to how other presidential incumbents were doing at this point.

That is, we need to make an apples-to-apples comparison that takes into account the polarized era in which we live.

In a CNN poll conducted earlier this year, Democrat Joe Biden and Democrat Bernie Sanders both led Trump by double digits among registered voters. I cannot begin to explain how bad of a position that is.

There were six different times since the 1948 election with polls at this point in the cycle in which the eventual matchup was surveyed.

1948: President Harry Truman was tied with Republican challenger Thomas Dewey

1956: President Dwight Eisenhower held a 8-point advantage over Democrat Adlai Stevenson

1980: President Jimmy Carter held a 7-point lead over Republican Ronald Reagan

1984: President Ronald Reagan was tied with Democrat Walter Mondale

1996: President Bill Clinton was ahead of Republican Bob Dole by 9 points

2012: President Barack Obama was up 8 points over Republican Mitt Romney

Note that in none of these polls was the incumbent in anywhere near as bad shape as Trump is right now. I'll note there were other years where the eventual matchup wasn't polled at this time, but in all of those the incumbent was either tied or well ahead of the leading challenger.

Trump is in historically bad shape. He could recover and do better than expected, but at least right now it's not looking great.

Cillizza: RIGHT.

This is the broader point I keep reminding people about. Sure, Trump's approval numbers have improved marginally over the past six weeks or so. But, he is STILL in a position that, if history is any guide, suggests his party is in very bad shape in the 2018 midterms and Trump himself faces an uphill fight to win a second term in 2020.

The retort to that point is something like: "2020 is a long time from now." And it is! 924 days to be exact!

But Trump's approval numbers just seem to have a very hard floor and a very hard ceiling -- almost certainly because of how polarized we are as a country and how much the policies Trump has pursued have pushed that polarization.

So while, sure, anything can happen, the likelihood of a double-digit (or even high single-digit) improvement or decline in Trump's approval ratings seems very, very low to me.

Right? Wrong? Tie a bow on all of this for me.

Enten: I think these are all valid points. I think as I've pointed out before Trump is scoring pretty well on the economy, and he's still stuck in the high 30s or low 40s. That's quite unusual.

There just hasn't been a ton of movement in Trump's numbers. I mean he couldn't even hit 50% approval in the usual post-inauguration bump.

How in the world is his approval rating going to go higher than the low 40s? Maybe, he gets a bump if special counsel Robert Mueller says "Trump is good." Maybe he gets a bump if we start seeing an even better economy.

I think the better question that I'm asking in a piece that hopefully will see the light of day is whether you believe the normal rules of politics apply to Trump. You're going to see a lot of fancy models out there about Trump and low approval ratings...

But let's be clear, presidents who have approval ratings of 40% usually don't get reelected. That's especially the case when their favorability rating (a slightly different measure) is also in the same area.

Unless the normal rules don't apply to Trump, the only way he wins in 2020 if his approval rating is 40% is for the Democrats to nominate an equally unpopular candidate.